.I 400
.W
2379. in-vitro culture of pulmonary tumors in hamsters caused by adenovirus 12
it is known that the adenoviruses 12 and
18 provoke malignant tumors in the
new-born hamster.  the authors made a study
of the histogenesis of these tumors and
examined the specific changes brought about
in the cells by the virus infection
malignancy, presence of viral antigen, reactions
to superinfection.  when new-born
hamsters were inoculated in the chest with
adenovirus 12, malignant tumors
developed in one or two months, in 16 animals
out of 22.  these tumors presented
an epithelial aspect and were of bronchiolo-alveolar
origin.  they were transplant-
able in vivo; if they were cultured in vitro,
they consisted in the first few cultures of
macrophages, fibroblasts and epithelium.
in subsequent passages, there was a
progressive disappearance of the macrophages
and fibroblasts.  in some cases, the
culture after seven passages was of a purely
epithelial nature, and when it was
reimplanted into hamsters at this time it
gave rise to the rapid development of an
epithelial tumor.  in the tumor cultures,
no adenovirus could be demonstrated.
nor could cultures of the pulmonary tumors,
or cultures of normal hamster lung be
infected with adenovirus.  it appears that the
lung of the hamster in an organotyp-
ical culture constitutes a means of choice
for the malignant transformation of
adenovirus 12.
.I 401
.W
133. demonstration, purification, and partial characterization of ab-
normal (hsl) antigens in stable human cell lines
the existence of abnormal human stable
line (hsl) antigens common to a
number of stable human cell lines, but
absent from normal human tissues and
normal human diploid cell strains in tissue
culture, was demonstrated by agar gel
microimmunodiffusion.  hsl was detected
in hela-sj, hela-mba, hela-s3,
chang conjunctiva, syverton's embryo
esophagus, chang liver, and j-iii.  it
was not detected in henle's human intestine
or detroit-6.  it was absent from two
normal diploid strains, wi-38 and sj-dhl,
and was not found in a variety of
concentrated extracts of fresh human
organs.  hsl was not associated with
contamination by pleuropneumonia-like
organisms (pplo) of cell lines.  the
purest hsl preparations obtained from hela-sj
by ammonium sulfate fractiona-
tion yielded absorption spectra characteristic of
protein and were inactivated by
trypsin.  sephadex chromatography indicated a
particle weight of approximately
150,000; hsl was not sedimented at 125,000 x g.
in 0.02 m po4 buffer, activity
was virtually completely eliminated after 2 minutes
at 50 c., 8 minutes at 45 c.,
or 80 minutes at 40 c.  preliminary studies with
fluorescent anti-hsl globulin
indicated that hsl was not a surface antigen;
rabbit antisera to purified hsl
fractions were not cytotoxic to hela cells.
the best preparations of hsl still
contained a trace of common human antigen
and appeared to consist of multiple
components active in immunoprecipitation.
electrophoresis indicated the in-
homogeneity of this material.
.I 402
.W
1696. further comparative studies on two isogenic cell lines of autologous
origin, one of which is tumor-producing
a single explant of normal lung tissue
from an adult female mouse c57bl provided
2 cell lines.  one remained normal
and is referred to as pg, the other became
malignant and is designated as pt.
with successive in vitro passages by tryp-
sinization the tumour-inducing capacity
of the pt line considerably decreased its
tumour-producing capacity as well
as its acrobic glycolysis coefficient, while the
pg line showed no appreciable
change.  results of chromosome studies are de-
scribed, but proved inconclusive.
similar experiments were also carried out on
cell lines derived from the pt line
and their results are discussed.
.I 403
.W
1202. characteristics of human adenovirus type 12 induced hamster tumor
cells in tissue culture
characteristics of a human adenovirus
type 12 induced hamster tumor serially pro-
pagated in vitro are described.  these
include small cell size, epithelioid appear-
ance, rapid growth rate, resistance to
superinfection with a-12, and transplant-
ability to weanling hamsters.  these cells grew
either as monolayers or as balls of
aggregated cells detached from the glass,
depending on whether calf serum or horse
serum was added to the eagle's medium.  attempts
to demonstrate virus activity by
subculture of supernatant fluids and lysed cells into
hela cells, mixed culture with
human and hamster cells, electron microscopy,
and inoculation of newborn
hamsters with irradiated tumor cells were negative.
.I 404
.W
142. trials of heterotransplantation of human cancer in rabbits
and kleisbauer a.
trials of transplantation of human
tumours (some 20, almost all carcinomas) in
the pleural cavity of large rabbits
(6 months old flanders, weighing 3 kg.) gave
negative results also when cortisone
treatment was associated with it, though in
the cortisone treated animals the
necrosis of the tumours was less massive.
examination of the grafted tumour
was carried out at different times (from 8 to
365 days after transplantation) and
was also controlled by radiographic examina-
tions.  detailed description of the
giant cell reactions around the tumours and in
the adjoining lung.
.I 405
.W
1207. solitary mast cell granuloma (histiocytoma) of the lung.
a histopathologic, tissue culture and time-lapse cinemato-
graphic study
a pulmonary histiocytoma in a 57-year-old
woman was studied intensively histo-
pathologically and by other techniques.
abundant mast cells were found within the
lesion, a previously unreported finding.
tissue culture studies suggested that the
process is reactive rather than neoplastic.
some plasma-cell granulomas of the
lung may be mast cell histiocytomas.
.I 406
.W
2773. the value of fluorescence cytology for the cytodiagnosis
of pulmonary cancer
the paper discusses the test results
of 527 tissue samples sent in for the cytodiag-
nostics of lung cancer and compares
the method of ao-fluorochromation with other
methods of preparation.  by means of
applying ao-fluorochromation, the rate of er-
roneously positive findings could be
reduced.  the rate of erroneously negative find-
ings was somewhat higher but the total
diagnostic precision of 93% was 3% higher
than in all other methods applied.
.I 407
.W
2774. pitfalls in the clinical and histologic diagnosis of broncho-
genic carcinoma
a necropsy study of 380 cases of extrathoracic
carcinoma revealed that pulmonary
metastases occurred in almost 50% of the
cases and bronchial metastases in over
25%.  there were 39 cases (10.3%) in the
series with clinical features simulating
bronchogenic carcinoma and in 24 (62%)
of these cases there was cytologic and/or
histologic confirmation.  carcinomas of
the pancreas presented the greatest source
of diagnostic error accounting for more
than one-third of the 39 cases; the primary
site second in frequency was carcinoma
of the kidney.  bronchial metastases were
chiefly responsible for the clinical,
cytologic, and histologic findings compatible
with the diagnosis of bronchogenic
carcinoma.  secondary growths in the lungs may
present roentgenologically as solitary
tumors indistinguishable from primary lung
cancer.  metastatic lesions in lymph
nodes, bronchi, and lung may exhibit pleomor-
phic features simulating squamous
cell carcinoma.  the diagnosis of bronchioloalveo-
lar carcinoma in resected lung tissue
is a presumptive conclusion inasmuch as the
identical morphological features may
be reproduced by metastases from duct or
glandular carcinomas.  the simulation
of bronchogenic carcinoma by metastatic tum-
ors occurs with sufficient frequency to
challenge the diagnostic accuracy of deaths
certified as bronchogenic carcinoma
with necropsy exclusion of other primary sites.
.I 408
.W
4396. effects of arginine deprivation, ultraviolet radiation,
and x-radiation on cultured kb cells.  a cytochemical and
ultrastructural study
cultured kb cells (derived from a
human oral carcinoma) grown in monolayers
were injured by one of three agents
starvation by arginine deprivation or treatment
with high doses of either ultraviolet
radiation or x-radiation.  the different agents
produced changes in nucleolar structure
and varying accumulations of triglyceride
and glycogen.  all three agents produced
an increase in number and size of lyso-
somes.  these were studied in acid
phosphatase preparations, viewed by both light
and electron microscopy, and, occasionally,
in vital dye, esterase, and aryl sul-
fatase preparations.  ultrastructurally,
alterations in lysosomes suggested that
'residual bodies' developed in a variety
of ways, i.e., from the endoplasmic retic-
ulum, multivesicular bodies, or autophagic
vacuoles.  following all three agents,
the endoplasmic reticulum assumed
the form of 'rough' or 'smooth' whorls, and,
after two of the agents, arginine
deprivation or ultraviolet radiation, it acquired
cytochemically demonstrable acid
phosphatase activity.  near connections between
the endoplasmic reticulum and lysosomes
raise the possibility that in kb cells, at
least when injured, the endoplasmic
reticulum is involved in the formation of
lysosomes and the transport of acid
phosphatase to them.
.I 409
.W
1106. the simultaneous use of extracorporal circulation and hypothermia in the
surgery of the heart
the operative technique of cardiac
surgery under conditions of deep hypothermia with
simultaneous use of a pump oxygenator
and cardiopulmonary bypass is described.  in
the majority of cases the patients were
cooled with water at 2 c. and the perfusion
volume was reduced by more than 50%
during hypothermia.  in others, a gradient of
10 c. between blood and water was
maintained and the perfusion volume was reduced
by less than 50%.  the data presented
show that neither technique leads to hypoxic
changes in the cerebrum and internal
organs, provided the mean arterial pressure
is kept between 70 and 90 mm. hg during perfusion.
the overall mortality in the
authors' 168 cases - most of which
had congenital heart disease - was 14.8%.  in 53
cases of tetralogy of fallot - most
of them cyanotic - the vsd was closed by taking
a flap of tissue from the crista supraventricularis.
in this group mortality was 24.5%.
.I 410
.W
464. cardiac performance in hypothermia.  an experimental study of left
ventricular power, oxygen consumption, and efficiency in dogs
multiple cardiac parameters have been measured
in 30 dogs cooled to 20 c. aortic
blood temperature.  the parameters have been
expressed both as absolute values
and as percentages of normothermic values.
at normothermia, dogs with closed
chest had an ascending aorta flow of 154%
and a left ventricular external power of
183% of the corresponding values for dogs
with open chest.  both ascending aorta
flow and left circumflex coronary artery flow
were reduced to 25% of normothermic level
at 20 c.  aortic arch mean pressure was
reduced to 50% of normothermic level
at 20 c.  total peripheral resistance was
increased to 205% of normothermic level
at 20 c.  left ventricular external power
was decreased to 11% of normothermic
level at 20 c.  left ventricular oxygen
consumption was decreased to 31% of nor-
mothermic level at 20 c.  mechanical
efficiency of the left ventricular myocardium
was decreased to 39% of normothermic level at 20 c.
.I 411
.W
3270. tolerance of dogs to deep hypothermia.  controlled and maintained with a
pump oxygenator
the advantages of hypothermia of below 10 c for 2 hr,
induced and maintained by
extracorporeal circulation of 200 min.,
were compared to partial bypass of the
same duration during normothermia.
in the normothermic group 9 dogs out of 12
lived.  in the hypothermic group 6 dogs
out of 15 (40%) survived when perfused at
the high flow of 55 cc/kg/min.  eleven
dogs out of 15 (70%) survived when the flow
rate was reduced to 25 cc/kg/min when
the temperature was below 10 c.  the death
in the high flow group were due mainly
to postperfusion lung changes even when low
pulmonary venous pressure was assured
by venting in the left atrial chamber.  me-
tabolic acidosis occurred in all groups;
though greater in the high flow, with the
low flow intermediate between the former
and the normothermic group.  this change
to a great degree, can be explained by the lung changes.
.I 412
.W
1593. bleeding tendencies associated with profound-hypothermia technics in
neurologic surgery
forty-three patients with bleeding intracranial
aneurysms were operated on under
deep hypothermia and with the aid of extracorporeal
circulation.  the open-thorax
method was used in 18 cases and the closed-thorax
method in 25.  the following
points are made  (1) the closed-thorax method
is considered superior to the open-
thorax method in several respects; (2) meticulous
hemostasis is essential to control
the oozing that occurs during extracorporeal
circulation under profound hypothermia
until the heparin antagonist can become
effective and body temperature can return
to normal; (3) significant thrombocytopenia
may develop during extracorporeal cir-
culation, and inhibition of the thrombin-fibrinogen
reaction by factors other than
heparin may cause a major coagulation defect
and may also, by mimicking the he-
parin effect, lead to the excessive use of
heparin antagonists; (4) pathologic changes
in microcirculation during extracorporeal
circulation may be determinants of a
hemorrhagic tendency.
.I 413
.W
4088. the use of hypothermia and dehydration in the treatment of severe
cerebral hypoxia
the rational for using hypothermia or
cerebral dehydration is to suppress or re-
verse progressive or delayed cerebral
damage after hypoxia.  it is suggested that
damage of this nature results from injury
to the astroglia and oligodendroglia,
especially the former.  experimental and
clinical evidence favors lowering of the
body temperature immediately after any
episode of hypoxia accompanied by impor-
tant damage to the brain.  the rational
for using dehydration is insecure and its
results are uncertain.  this treatment
should probably be reserved for cases in
which a raised cerebrospinal fluid pressure
has been proved, and in which other
measures, especially hypothermia,
are either not available or have failed.
.I 414
.W
7828. selective cerebral hypothermia  physiology and technic
a safe, suitable technique for producing
selective brain cooling by a perfusion
method is described.  of 15 dogs, 7 survived.
the salient features aiding survival
are discussed.  the use of a direct vasodilator
(papaverine) in the perfusate to
relieve vasospasm markedly reduced cooling time
and represented the most signi-
ficant technical advance over previously
described methods.  an acid base analysis
utilizing the siggaard-andersen curve nomogram
was performed on 4 dogs and no
significant acidosis noted during selective brain
cooling.  a definite arteriovenous
lactic acid difference developed at hypothermic
temperatures indicating the brain
may metabolize this substance in preference to
glucose at lowered brain tempera-
tures, the reasons for which were discussed.
the rate of disappearance of physi-
cally dissolved oxygen (po2) was measured
in the brain following ischemia at dif-
ferent temperatures.  the average rate of
disappearance at 20 c. was 40% of the
rate at 37 c.  the discrepancy between this
finding and the in vitro oxygen utili-
zation rate at the same temperature was discussed.
.I 415
.W
948.cardiac activity in cranio-cerebral hypothermia
the onset of hypothermia rarely alters the heart
rate.  as it deepens to 35-32, the
rate slows, and at the level of 30-29 it usually
amounts to only half its original va-
lue.  at 28 or below, the development of
bradycardia is observed.  after warming
to 32 the normal heart rate is restored.
during operations on the abdominal organs
the heart rate is only slightly modified.
the appearance of solitary extrasystoles is
rare and is usually associated with stimulation
of the diaphragm.  the most marked
changes in the heart rate are observed during operations on the heart,
especially if
it is excluded from the circulation.  an
idioventricular rhythm may develop before
the heart stops beating.  after removal of the
ligatures from the venae cavae the nor-
mal rhythm is restored.  as the temperature
falls, the excitability of the myocardium
increases.  conduction is more resistant.
areflexia continues even during direct sti-
mulation of reflexogenic zones.  in the surgical
stage of cranio-cerebral hypothermia
it is clear that no significant degree of energy
or hemodynamic insufficiency deve-
lops, whether in experimental conditions or
during operations on patients.  at opera-
tion a well-marked stabilization of the contractile
power of the myocardium may be observed.
.I 416
.W
946. respiration in hypothermia.  i. respiratory pattern and
acid-base balance in the blood
mongrel dogs, under light pentobarbital anesthesia,
were made hypothermic by im-
mersing them in ice water and then normothermic
in warm water.  in the course of
cooling, the respiratory rate and pulmonary
ventilation, after an initial increase,
were reduced as the rectal temperature fell,
and spontaneous respiration was ar-
rested at rectal temperatures of 21-25 c.
alveolar pco2 was increased, after an
initial slight lowering, with the progress of
hypothermia.  arterial ph and standard
bicarbonate (jorgensen and astrup) decreased,
and the alkalinity of the blood coh/
ch (winterstein) decreased markedly during hypothermia.
these findings suggest
both respiratory and metabolic acidosis as the
mechanisms concerned.  in the course
of rewarming all these changes disappeared rapidly
and completely though the venti-
latory stimulation observed as an initial transitory
phenomenon during cooling failed to occur.
.I 417
.W
896. studies on blood viscosity and its significance in anesthesia
the principles for measuring blood viscosity
have been discussed.  although blood
does not behave in a newtonian manner,
the data obtained in in vitro measurement
are useful.  a modified simple method for
measuring blood viscosity relative to nor-
mal saline has been described.  there is
essentially no difference in viscosity be-
tween fresh blood and heparinized blood and between plasma and serum.
viscosity varies with the quantity and nature of proteins
in plasma and the cellular concentra-
tion.  halothane and thiopental sodium reduce
blood viscosity and seem to be indicat-
ed in conditions in which there is hemoconcentration
and a tendency for red blood
cells to aggregate.  cyclopropane, hypothermia,
and norepinephrine tend to raise
blood viscosity and would seem to be contraindicated
when the microcirculation is failing.
.I 418
.W
4612. flow considerations in regional cerebral hypothermia
it is suggested that low flows are dangerous
and may cause anoxia either directly
or by interfering with cooling.  sixty dogs
have been subjected to local cerebral
hypothermia by the method of femoral to
carotid cooling of arterial blood with per-
fusion at a predetermined pressure rather
than predetermined flow rate.  the cir-
cuit is described and its advantages for
clinical use mentioned together with its in-
accuracies as a method of scientific investigation.
these are chiefly concerned
with maintenance of systemic blood pressure
which may require the injection of
pressor agents.  evidence for reduction in flow
at low temperatures is discussed
and evidence presented that this is not only due
to increase in viscosity but that
there is an active spasm, manifested by
'rewarming humps' which occur in the
cooling graphs.  mean carotid flow rates
were determined by a revolution counter
attached to a pump of fixed stroke volume,
the output of which was linked to the per-
fusion pressure and thus determined by the resistance.
the place of added co2
is discussed particularly in relation to the fall
in partial pressure which accompa-
nies the cooling of the blood.  the addition of 5% co2
did not increase total carotid
flows.  halothane had been used as an anesthetic
because of its sympatholytic ac-
tion.  it has increased flows by 37% and
abolished 'rewarming humps'.  rheomacro-
dex used as a priming fluid instead of blood
produced increased flow averaging 75%
but did not abolish spasm.  it is suggested that
cooling faster than 1 c. per minute
is not intrinsically dangerous if spasm is prevented
and high flow maintained by the methods described.
.I 419
.W
4613. selective brain cooling produced by cerebral ventricular perfusion
hypothermic cerebral ventricular perfusion
was applied to dogs.  shivering appear-
ed to be directly related to the cns temperature
rather than the peripheral body
temperature.  selective heating of the brain-stem
produced panting.  rewarming
of the body was retarded by the initiation of heat
loss mechanisms controlled cen-
trally when hyperthermic perfusion was used.
shivering disappeared but panting
was unaffected by pentobarbital anesthesia.
cooling of one or both frontal areas and
the anterior part of the third ventricle did not
significantly affect the respiratory
or circulatory systems but brain-stem hypothermia
produced distinct respiratory
and circulatory reactions.  it is suggested that
cooling of the 3rd and 4th ventricu-
lar areas may be utilized for anesthetic purposes.
.I 420
.W
1139. optimal coronary flow in the bypassed normothermic and hypothermic heart
a series of experiments were conducted in dogs
in which bypass flow, temperature,
and direct coronary perfusion pressure were varied.
coronary flow, coronary ven-
ous saturation, myocardial oxygen consumption (mvo2),
and coronary vascular re-
sistance were assayed.  coronary flow as a percentage
of total bypass flow did not
vary appreciably at varying levels of bypass flow.
induction of hypothermia, when
total bypass flow is constant, results in decreasing
coronary flow.  induction of hy-
pothermia when maintaining a constant bypass pressure
results in an increasing
coronary flow with temperatures down to 22 c.
further cooling causes a reduction
in flow.  using isolated coronary perfusion at 100 mm. hg,
coronary flow fell and
resistance rose during the first 15 min. of bypass.
using isolated coronary perfu-
sion at 100 mm. hg, induction of moderate hypothermia
(25 c.) caused an increase
in coronary flow and venous saturation and a decrease
in cardiovascular resistance
and mvo2.  under the same conditions, induction of
hypothermia to 18 c. produced
similar changes but caused myocardial hemorrhage
and ventricular fibrillation.  pro-
found hypothermia probably leads to excessive
fragility of the capillary bed.  reduc-
tion of perfusion pressure to 50 mm. hg at near
normothermia reduced coronary
flow and slightly reduced venous saturation
and mvo2.  the same reduction of perfu-
sion pressure at 18 c. produced similar but
less marked changes.  reduction to 25
mm. hg at 18 c. markedly reduced coronary flow,
venous saturation, and mvo2
initially, but with partial recovery later.  from this
data of acute experiments in
dogs, coronary perfusion using moderate hypothermia
(about 31 c.) and 50 mm.
hg, slightly pulsatile mean pressure appears optimal.
.I 421
.W
974. extracorporeal hypothermia without thoracotomy.  an ex-
perimental study in the use of cold for neurosurgery and
cancericidal perfusions
this paper includes minor clinical notes
on open heart surgery and cancer perfusion
but contains no experimental information
on neurosurgery or cancer perfusions.  a
method of closed-chest hypothermic perfusion
in 30 dogs is reported.  the authors
utilize drainage of superior and inferior cavae
by gravity.  the volume of venous
drainage sometimes enhanced by transfusions
or 12.5% low molecular weight dex-
tran determined the flow rate.  cooling was
maintained for quite variable periods
apparently generally to an unspecified
esophageal temperature.  perfusion time va-
ried from 30 min. to 4 hr.  animals with
low flows were perfused longer, had a high-
er incidence of ventricular fibrillation,
and a very low survival rate.  eleven ani-
mals survived.  all had pre-cooling flow
rates above 40 ml./kg./min., good flow
rates during the perfusion, and only 3 had
ventricular fibrillation.  flow rates and
survival were increased in animals receiving
low molecular weight dextran.  four-
teen of 15 animals with ventricular fibrillation
were defibrillated electrically, 8 re-
gained 'adequate' cardiac function, but only 3
survived.  some interesting data on
regional cooling of the lower half of the body
is presented.  the authors conclude
without sufficient evidence that the most
important factor in the mortality in hypo-
thermic perfusion is the ability to maintain
'a flow rate approaching the estimated
normothermic cardiac output of the animal'
.I 422
.W
2406. profound hypothermia
the aim of hypothermia is protection of vital
cerebral structures from hypoxia
during aneurysm repair; profound hypothermia
is also valuable in operating on
certain cardiac defects which cannot be repaired
even with whole body perfusion.
since the time needed for aneurysm repair often
exceeded the safe limit of 8 to 12
minutes without circulation afforded by surface
hypothermia of 29  to 30  c., the
authors have investigated the drew (open-chest)
technic, the closed-chest method,
and isolated cerebral perfusion.  the drew technic
consists of substituting two
pumps for the heart while the patient's lungs act
as the oxygenator.  because of its
disadvantages (the large amounts of blood needed
and the morbidity due to intra-
cardiac cannulation and median sternotomy), a
closed-chest method was developed,
using a mayo-gibbons vertical-sheet pump-oxygenator
to provide the perfusion and
extracorporeal cooling without requiring thoracotomy.
in cerebral perfusion, blood
is taken from one artery, pumped through a heat
exchanger, and returned to another
artery.  the authors describe anesthetic technics,
offer comparisons of the three
methods, give instructions pertaining to the production
of hypothermia, and list the
problems encountered in the management of these cases.
.I 423
.W
3194. systemic hypothermia via gastric cooling
eight dogs underwent gastric cooling for
systemic hypothermia.  each dog was cooled
with the balloon filled with a 'safe' volume
based on weight (20 ml/kg) and subjected
to cooling with the balloon filled maximally,
but safely to a pressure of 10 mm hg.
consistently, the latter procedure was far
more efficient, averaging 2.6 times as
rapid for all degrees of hypothermia.  a
decrease in core temperature by 7 c re-
quired an average of only 28.4 minutes.
on comparison with clinical reports of hy-
pothermia induced by the usual gastric
cooling, an improved efficiency of two-fold
to three-fold is still noted.
.I 424
.W
3820. the dubious haemopoietic
stem cell function of the lym-
phoid cells of the blood.
autoradiographic studies on
dogs
the migration, fate and turnover of
lymphoid cells in blood and bone marrow of
irradiated and non-irradiated dogs were
studied by serial autoradiography with co-
ping of the hind legs during the plasma
clearance time of h3-thymidine injected into
an anterior vein.  in irradiated dogs,
the h3-thymidine injection procedure was car-
ried out during the early recovery phase
following 250 r whole body x-irradiation.
conclusive evidence of transformation of
hematogenous bone marrow lymphoid cells
into hemopoietic precursors was not found.
however, in the light of the individual
grain counts transformation of a few lymphoid
cells into hemopoietic cells cannot be
ruled out.  the data obtained from a dog in the
very early recovery phase following
whole body irradiation strongly indicate such
a transformation.
.I 425
.W
3927. studies on growth and cytomorphosis
in the thymo-lympha-
tic systems - with special
reference to the influence of
the thymus and the thyroid
in guinea-pigs
migratory streams of lymphocytes between
different parts of the thymo-lymphatic
system were evaluated by comparisons between
lymphocyte populations in thoracic-
duct lymph and arterial and venous blood,
especially thymic venous blood.  by re-
cording organ weights in sham-operated and
thymectomized guinea-pigs, treated
with thyroxin or untreated, the importance
of the thymus and the thyroid for growth
and regeneration in the thymo-lymphatic
system was studied.  the main results are
as follows.  there is a considerable venous
output of lymphocytes with low mito-
chondrial content (small lymphocytes) from
the thymus in normal young guinea-pigs.
this explains the much higher incidence of
small lymphocytes in blood than in tho-
racic-duct lymph.  neonatal thymectomy
causes lymphatic hypotrophy with defi-
ciency of lymphocytes and pyroninophilic
cells in relation to reticular ones.  body
growth and survival of the animals are not
affected.  in the thymus, exogenous
thyroxin most probably promotes differentiation
of large basophilic cells to small
lymphocytes, resulting in an increased output of
small lymphocytes.  in the lymph
nodes, thyroxin promotes differentiation of large
pyroninophilic cells ('transitional
cells') into immature and mature plasma cells.
the effects of thyroxin on dif-
ferentiation are followed by an increased growth
of the thymo-lymphatic organs,
characterized by an increased incidence of large
basophilic cells and increased weight
of the lymphatic organs.  growth of the thymus and
lymph nodes precedes that of
the red splenic pulp.  this delayed splenic response
is not due to a transformation
of an increased number of immigrated thymic
lymphocytes, as neonatal thymectomy
does not prevent the thyroxin-stimulated
occurrence of large basophilic cells in the
red splenic pulp.  the thyroxin-stimulated
growth of the lymphatic system is ac-
companied by an increased output of larger
lymphocytes through the thoracic
duct, resulting in an increased number of
larger lymphocytes in the blood.  in
postnatally thymectomized animals, having a
normal (or above normal) amount of
circulating small lymphocytes, thyroxin produces
a drastic decrease in the number of
small blood lymphocytes, indicating a decreased
delivery and/or increased disappear-
ance of these cells to and from the blood, respectively.
this decrease in number of small
lymphocytes is not seen in sham-operated animals.
as judged by studies of organ
weights, the thyroxin-stimulated growth and
regeneration of the lymphatic tissue
are influenced antagonistically by thymectomy
and synergistically by local factors
in involuted tissue.
.I 426
.W
815. the origin of macrophages
from bone marrow in the rat
skin windows' and subcutaneous coverslips
were applied to rats in a study designed
to identify the tissues in which the precursors
of macrophages proliferate.  lympho-
cyte-depletion by either chronic drainage from
the thoracic duct or 400 rads of x-
irradiation failed to suppress the emigration of
macrophages or to reduce the pro-
portion of them which became labelled after an
injection of tritiated thymidine.  x-
irradiation with 750 rads suppressed
the emigration and the labelling of the exudate
macrophages.  both were restored to
normal when the tibial marrow was shielded
during irradiation.  radioactively-labelled
cell suspensions obtained from thoracic
duct lymph, lymph nodes, thymus, spleen
and bone marrow were transfused into
syngeneic recipients.  the emigration of
labelled macrophages on to coverslips
could be demonstrated only in recipients
of labelled bone marrow and spleen cells.
labelled monocytes were found in the blood
of rats which had received injections
of labelled bone marrow.  it was concluded
that in the rat, bone marrow, and to a
lesser extent spleen, are major sources of
the macrophages which emigrate into
foci of acute, non-bacterial inflammation.
.I 427
.W
1786. studies of the
leucocyte compartment
in guinea-pig bone
marrow after acute
haemorrhage and
severe hypoxia  evidence
for a common stem-cell
after a large acute hemorrhage,
the absolute le-
vels of neutrophils, eosinophils, and
basophils in guinea
pig bone marrow are considerably
reduced.  all stages
of differentiation are involved, the
decline in myelo-
blasts and promyelocytes being
particularly marked.
exposure to severe hypoxia also
temporarily depresses
the number of marrow granulocytes.
bone marrow
lymphocytes are only slightly reduced
after a single he-
morrhage but in the later stages of
severe hypoxia their
numbers are greatly reduced.
assuming the supply of
stem cells in the bone marrow
is not unlimited, the de-
crease in marrow granulocytes
and lymphocytes follow-
ing marked erythropoietic stimulation
appears to favor
a monophyletic theory of hemopoiesis;
a heavy demand
for stem cells to differentiate into the
erythron may
temporarily restrict the
number entering the leukon.  the
hypoxic animals showed
a considerable loss of body weight
and the notable reduction
of marrow lymphocytes in the
later stages of hypoxia
may be specifically related to a
generalized atrophy of
lymphoid tissue.  using h3-thymi-
dine there is evidence
of active dna synthesis in guinea
pig metamyelocytes.
although dna-synthesis was found
in metamyelocytes of
normal marrow, after hemorrhage
these cells form a much
larger proportion of the total
synthesizing cells in the
granulocyte compartment and
also the ratio of labeled
metamyelocytes to myelocytes
is considerably increased.
microspectrophotometric
measurements of the feulgen
dna-content of metamyelo-
cytes after hemorrhage show
that there are 2 populations
of these cells.  one group has
values typical of resting or
nonsynthesizing cells but a 2nd
group shows a complete
range of dna-values up to levels
characteristic of those
found in dividing cells.  certain
small mononuclear cells
with minimal but deeply basophilic
cytoplasm are a dis-
tinctive group of dna-synthesizing
cells in marrow af-
ter hemorrhage.  morphologically,
there appears to be a
complete sequence between these
cells and procrythro-
blasts.
.I 428
.W
3831. relative ability of parental
marrow to repopulate lethal-
ly irradiated f1 hybrids
lethally irradiate (c57bl x 101)f1 mice
injected with a mixture of 10 million
c57bl and 10 million 101 bone-marrow
cells were repopulated only by the 101
bone-marrow cells.  experiments with other
cell mixtures indicated that the 101
marrow was relatively nine times as efficient
as c57bl marrow in repopulating
lethally irradiated (c57bl x 101)f1 mice.
results from additional strain combina-
tions suggested that the behavior of the
donor marrows was not determined solely
by h-2 factors.  c57bl marrow, which
frequently regresses in irradiated f1 mice,
has shown to be relatively less capable
of repopulating the recipient than regularly
retained parental marrow.  the differences
in the relative abilities of parental mar-
rows to repopulate f1 mice cannot as yet be
fully explained.  they might be corre-
lated with physiological differences between
the parental marrows or with a micro-
environmental advantage of one hematopoietic
cell type over another in the irradiated
recipient.  immunological and physiological factors
that might favor this selective
growth are discussed.
.I 429
.W
3832. pluripotent stem cell function
of the mouse marrow
'lymphocyte'
bone marrow from normal and polycythemic
mice was filtered through glass wool
columns to remove cells other than 'lymphocytes'.
for a given number of nucleated
cells, filtered marrow was more efficient than
the original marrow in repopulating
the spleen of an isogenic recipient previously
exposed to lethal irradiation.  the
proliferative capacity of both the filtered and
unfiltered marrow suspensions ap-
peared to be a constant function of the number
of small and medium 'lymphocytes'
present and not of any other cell type.
.I 430
.W
2045. the effect of
unilateral limb shield-
ing on the haemopoietic
response of the
guinea-pig to gamma
irradiation
guineapigs were exposed to
150 r  -irradiation
whilst approx. 1/5 of the total bone
marrow was protect-
ed by shielding 2 limbs.  quantitative
cell counts of both
the shielded and irradiated marrow
were combined with
observations on the thymus, spleen
and blood during the
recovery period, and compared
with the effects of whole-
body irradiation.  following
whole-body irradiation
(150 r) the thymus shows a
delayed secondary cellular
depletion coinciding with a
marked splenic hyperplasia.
both phenomena were eliminated
by limb shielding.  the
lymphocytes in the irradiated
marrow of partially shiel-
ded animals continued to show
both the overshoot and the
secondary fall in numbers which
characterize recovery
from whole-body irradiation
(150 r).  after an initial fall
in numbers of erythroid and
granulocytic precursors,
the shielded marrow showed
a temporary increase in
granulocytopoiesis coinciding
with an abortive phase of
granulocytopoiesis in the irradiated
marrow.  there was
no evidence of any effective colonization
of irradiated
marrow by cells from the shielded marrow.
the signi-
ficance of these findings is discussed.
.I 431
.W
4311. studies on intravenous transfusion
of thymus cells and
lymphnode cells.  iii. influence of
transfused thymus cells
and lymphnode cells on the bone
marrow
in rabbits transfused with thymus cells and
lymphnode cells the peripheral blood and
bone marrow were studied.  the transfusion
of thymus cells caused a peripheral
lymphocytosis and a diminution of lymphoid
cells in the bone marrow of both young
and adult rabbits.  the transfusion of lymphnode
cells resulted in a peripheral lympho-
penia, and an initial increase and a subsequent
diminution of lymphoid cells in the
bone marrow.  it is suggested that lymphoid cells
in the bone marrow may be lympho-
cytes which are stored or discharged according
to a variety of conditions.  further-
more, thymus cells are thought to mobilize
lymphocytes from the bone marrow to
the peripheral blood.
.I 432
.W
5041. studies on hypoxia.  iii. the
differential response of the
bone marrow to primary and
secondary hypoxia
twenty-five adult male guinea pigs were
placed in a decompression chamber, at a
simulated altitude of 14,000 feet for 5 days,
then kept in ordinary air for 5 days,
and finally returned to the decompression
chamber to be subjected to hypoxia a
second time, for periods ranging from 1
to 5 days.  during this period of secondary
hypoxia quantitative studies were made
of the changes in the blood and bone marrow.
in secondary as in primary hypoxia there
is a significant increase in the nucleated
red cells of the marrow.  in secondary
hypoxia, however, there is a very marked
increase in the marrow lymphocytes,
whereas in primary hypoxia the lymphocytes
fall.  the marrow reticulocytes remain
at a fairly constant level despite marked
fluctuations in erythropoiesis.
.I 433
.W
1044. an investigation of lymphocyte
production in guinea-pig
bone marrow
evidence from a variety of experiments indicates
that lymphocytes are produced in
guinea-pig bone marrow.  under certain conditions
the numbers produced appear to
be considerable.  during recovery from irradiation
there are numerous telophases
in marrow smears which appear to be forming small
lymphocytes.  moreover, many
lymphocytes are still found in shielded bone marrow
after the rest of the body, in-
cluding the conventional lymphoid tissues, has
received lethal or supra-lethal irra-
diation.  almost 50% of these cells are formed
after the irradiation.  finally, when
bone marrow is cultured in the peritoneal cavity
of a host whose own lymphocyte
production has been suppressed by irradiation,
small percentages of newly-formed
small lymphocytes are found in this marrow.
.I 434
.W
103. repopulation of bone marrow
in mice  number and type of
cells required for
post-x-irradiation protection
fractionation of cells from mouse bone
marrow and autologous mouse spleen indi-
cates that the cell responsible for bone
marrow repopulation and x-irradiation
protection resembles the small lymphocyte.
experiments with injection of different
numbers of bone marrow and spleen cells
and observations on survival obtained by
fractional irradiation of the entire body and
of extirpation of the shielded spleen
after irradiation indicate that approximately
3 x 10 4 cells of this type are required
to provide 50% survival, and that approximately
this number migrates from the
shielded extremity or spleen of a mouse per hour
(slightly faster for spleen and slower for bone marrow).
.I 435
.W
104. hyperbasophilic cells as an
indication of proliferation of
bone marrow transplanted to
irradiated dogs
a study was made of hyperbasophilic cells
which appeared following transplantation
of bone marrow to 20 irradiated mongrel
dogs of both sexes.  in the main series of
experiments the animals were irradiated
with a dosage of 600 r., using a four-tube
rum-3 x-ray machine  voltage 200 kv,
current 10 ma, filters 0.5 cu mm + 1.0
mm.al, target distance 60 cm., rate
18-22 r./min.  at 1-2 days after irradiation,
a suspension of bone marrow cells in a
dosage of 10 9 - 5 x 10 9 nuclear cells was
administered i.v.  the marrow was
obtained by aspiration from various skeletal
bones or by compression from the
sternum, ribs and other bones.  a study was made
of the morphological composition
of the blood and bone marrow before irradiation
and at 1-5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30
days after irradiation and transfusion of bone mar-
row, and thereafter at 10-15 days
intervals.  smears of blood and marrow were
stained with azure-ii-eosin.  it was
found that distinctive cells with basophilic proto-
plasm and frequent incidence of an
immature nucleus were present in the blood of
dogs following irradiation with 600 r.
and transplantation of bone marrow.  hyper-
basophilic cells appeared in the blood
at 2 - 4 days after transplantation and attained
a maximum 14 - 21 days later; thereafter
their number diminished rapidly.  the
trend of number of hyperbasophilic cells
coincided with that of other donor elements
(leukocytes, erythrocytes).  hyperbasophilic
cells were not found during acute radia-
tion sickness in dogs which were not given
injections of bone marrow.  they were
found 3 mth. after transplantation of bone
marrow to nonirradiated puppies at 2-3
days of age.  when the irradiation dosage
was increased to 800-1,000 r., the number
of hyperbasophilic cells increased and
attained a peak sooner than after the 600 r.
dosage.  such cells were formed from
the donor cells.
.I 436
.W
172. autoradiographic
studies of lymphoid
cells in blood and
bone marrow of nor-
mal and irradiated
dogs
the migration, fate, and
turnover of lymphoid
cells in blood and bone marrow
of 4 irradiated and 4 non-
irradiated dogs were studied
by serial autoradiography
with clamping of the hind legs
during the plasma clear-
ance time of h3-thymidine
injected into an anterior
vein.  in irradiated dogs, the
h3-thymidine injection pro-
cedure was carried out during
the early recovery phase
after 250 r of whole-body
x-irradiation.  the results on
2 irradiated and 2 normal
dogs were described in de-
tail.  migration of lymphoid
cells from blood to marrow
parenchyma was confirmed
in the irradiated dogs.  con-
clusive evidence of transformation
of these cells into
hemopoietic precursors was not
found.  the relative
number of large lymphoid cells,
the labeling index of
the whole population of lymphoid
cells, and that of small
lymphoid cells were increased
in irradiated marrow;
few initially labeled small
lymphoid cells could also be
observed.  these data indicate
that the pattern of pro-
liferation of lymphoid cells is
changed in irradiated re-
generating bone marrow.
.I 437
.W
175. lysozyme in bone
marrow and periph-
eral blood cells
by means of an indirect
histochemical technique,
the intracellular lysozyme of
the formed elements of the
peripheral blood and bone marrow
was estimated.  evi-
dence is presented that monocytes,
as well as mature
neutrophils and their precursors
extending back to the
progranulocyte, contain significant
amounts of this en-
zyme.  a rare mature eosinophil
demonstrated a trace
of lysozyme activity.  there was
no evidence of lyso-
zyme activity in basophils,
erythrocytes, megakaryo-
cytes, platelets, plasma
cells, tissue mast cells or
bone marrow
reticuloendothelial cells.
.I 438
.W
1770. proliferative activity of the
lymphatic tissues of rats as
studied with tritium-labelled
thymidine
cytokinetic data are presented, employing
quantitation of h3dna in the lymphatic
tissues of normal rats serially sacrificed
after h3tdr administration.  a marked
difference in the patterns of initial labeling
and label loss was observed between the
thymus and peripheral lymphatic tissue.
the data are compatible with other indica-
tions of rapid cell renewal in the thymus.
there is suppression of initial uptake of
h3tdr into the dna of each large lymphocytic
progenitor cell in the thymus, appa-
rently because of a feedback of thymidine
containing material from small lympho-
cytes in the thymus.  depletion of the thymus
of small cells, as by operative stress
or whole body x-ray, leads to a marked
increase in the uptake of h3tdr into the
dna of large thymocytes.  this finding,
which is in agreement with the previous
findings of sugino et al. suggesting transfer
of thymine nucleotides from small thy-
mus lymphocytes to precursor cells, may or
may not be related to the apparent
transfer of dna label between thymic cells.
the evidence for the latter consists of
the curvilinear dilution of the dna label in
the thymus proliferating cell population
and the relationship between the rate of dna
label dilution in large cells and the
dna in the small cells in the thymus.  after
the dna label in progenitor cells in
the thymus and lymph nodes has entered the
small cell population, the subsequent
dilution of grains in these dividing cells follows
the same slope as the loss of radio-
activity from the entire lymph node.  there is a
long retention of some h3dna label
in the dividing lymph node cell population.  this
suggests that the loss of radioacti-
vity from the dividing cells and from the small
cell population as a whole occurs e-
qually.  this pattern prevails regardless of
whether the percentage of large and
small cells is altered experimentally.  these
findings can be explained by an inter-
change of the dna nuclear label between small
lymphocytes and large lymphocytes.
this could occur by some process such as
phagocytosis or pinocytosis, or by trans-
formation of the small lymphocyte into a large,
dividing cell.  the data fit best with
the latter possibility.  all or any of these
mechanisms would lead to an equilibration
of the dna label between large and small
cells.  this finding prevents the assign-
ment of a finite life span to lymphocytes on
the basis of dna labeling kinetics.  ne-
vertheless, there appear to be at least two
different types of lymphocytes.  one,
the 'thymus-type' lymphocyte, is found in the
thymus cortex, bone marrow and ger-
minal centers of lymphoid follicles.  the other
type, found abundantly in the wide-
spread peripheral lymphatic tissue, shows a
very prolonged retention of dna la-
bel and is believed to be recirculating,
'immunologically committed' cells described
by others.  these cells do not appear to
enter the thymus cortex.
.I 439
.W
6674. the free and glucuronic acid-bound
17-hydroxy-corticosteroids in the
plasma of patients with cancer of the
breast on i.v. infusion of acth
seventeen patients with advanced mammary
cancer were given an infusion with
3 u. of acth in 5 hr. and 6 others an infusion
of 25 u.  determinations were made
of the plasma 17-hydroxy-corticosteroids,
free and bound to glucuronic acid both
before and after the infusion.  in rapidly
growing carcinomas, high initial values
were found for the free corticosteroids
(more than 20 ug./100 ml. of plasma).
the ratio of free to bound corticosteroids is
for stage iv patients 1.8 on the average,
and approximately 1 for the mixed
forms stage iv + m.  these ratios are not
altered by acth.  shifts in the ratio
of free to bound corticosteroids with acth
treatment can be seen, depending on
the initial value of the free corticosteroids.
the administration of 3 u. is enough
and the 5 hr. value is some 70%, related to a
maximal stimulation with 25 u.
.I 440
.W
4179. reduced estriol excretion in patients
with breast cancer prior to endocrine
therapy
the urinary quotient of estriol/estrone +
estradiol-17b(eq) was measured chemically in
women with and without breast cancer, as an in-
dex of the ratio of noncarcinogenic impeded es-
trogens to mammary carcinogenic estrogens.  in
34 controls, the median eq was 1.3 before and 1.2
after menopause, with only 21% of the patients sub-
normal.  in 26 breast cancer patients without endo-
crine treatment or recent surgery, the median eq
was 0.5 and 0.8 respectively, with 62% of the pa-
tients subnormal.  after major surgery or hormo-
nal therapy, only 23% of 53 patients were subnor-
mal, no remissions being observed unless the eq
rose toward normal.  matching of 24 controls and
patients in pairs by age and ovarian status in the
wilcoxon test indicated that the decreased eq ex-
creted in untreated cancer was significant at the
0.2% confidence level.  the marked increase in eq
induced by castration and androgen, estrogen, and
corticosteroid therapy suggests that normaliza-
tion of a precancerous metabolic imbalance be-
tween impeded and active estrogens derived from
ovarian and adrenocortical sources contributed to
arrested growth of estradiol-dependent metastases.
.I 441
.W
1107. urinary excretion of estrone,
estradiol and estriol by pa-
tients with breast cancer and
benign breast disease
premenopausal patients with breast cancer
and benign breast disease appear to ex-
crete a significantly lower percentage of
the total estrogen as estrone and a signifi-
cantly higher percentage as estriol than
women in the premenopausal control group.
there was no significant difference in the
excretion of total estrogen between cancer
groups and controls in good health.
postmenopausal patients with cancer excreted
higher levels of estriol than postmenopausal
control groups.  the increase in estriol
excretion cannot be explained by debilitation.
.I 442
.W
5323. systemic effects of androgenic
and estrogenic hormones in advanced
breast cancer
the systemic effects of diethylstilbestrol
(45 patients), testosterone propionate
(48 patients), and both hormones (22 patients)
were studied during the treatment
(six weeks to over three months) of advanced
breast cancer in postmenopausal
women.  serious complications included
induced hypercalcemia and fluid re-
tention.  physiologic effects such as
urinary incontinence (diethylstilbestrol),
virilization (testosterone), or nausea and
vomiting did not necessitate disconti-
nuance of treatment.  androgenic therapy
stimulated erythropoiesis.  observa-
tions on the systemic reactions to these
hormonal agents definitely contribute to
the evaluation of sex steroid therapy.
.I 443
.W
3478. the effect of dehydroepiandrosterone
on the 17-hydroxycorti-
costeroids in the plasma in various stages
of cancer and other diseases of
the breast
the reducing effect of dehydroepiandrosterone
on the plasma corticosteroids is
on the average shortened in advanced
(stage iv) cases of breast cancer.  in 3
groups of patients, the lowest corticosteroid
levels were found up to 6 hr. after
infusion of dehydroepiandrosterone-phosphate.
in patients with mastopathy the
effect was still detectable 12 hr. later; in patients
with breast cancer in stage iv the
initial levels were reached at that time.  in
cases with stages i and ii lesions, the
findings were intermediate.  the shortening
is attributed to a more intensive
transformation of dehydroepiandrosterone in
advanced cases of breast cancer.
.I 444
.W
5274. urinary excretion of estrone,
estradiol and estriol by patients with
prostatic cancer and benign prostatic
hypertrophy
and hopkins c.e.
urinary estrone, estradiol, and estriol
fractions excreted by 21 patients with
prostatic cancer, 17 patients with benign
hypertrophy, and 59 clinically well
subjects were assayed to determine whether
differences exist.  absolute levels of
estrone, estradiol, and estriol fractions were
not significantly different.  the
excretion of relatively lower levels of estrone
and estradiol, and relatively higher
levels of estriol by patients with prostatic
cancer compared to clinically well
subjects resulted in significantly lower
proportions of the total estrogen being
excreted as estrone and estradiol.  differences in
the proportions of estrogen frac-
tions between patients with benign hypertrophy
and clinically well subjects were
not significant.  with the exception of a significantly
higher percentage of the total
estrogen being excreted as estrone by the patients
with benign hypertrophy,
differences between that group and the cancer
group were also not significant.
clinical variations between the 3 groups, and
within the cancer and hypertrophy
groups, preclude assignment of significant
differences to prostatic dystrophies
alone.  cancer patients experiencing inanition
due to a loss of appetite excreted
significantly lower levels of estrone than patients
who reported no loss of appetite.
significantly lower levels of estrone were excreted
by patients with benign hyper-
trophy hospitalized 6 days or more compared to
patients hospitalized 5 days or less.
a significantly higher urinary estrone-androsterone
ratio was present in the cancer
group than in the clinically well group.  it is not
believed, however, that an arbi-
trary ratio can be used to suggest an internal
estrogen-androgen imbalance.
.I 445
.W
28029 enzymic synthesis of steroid
sulfates.  ii. presence of steroid sulfo-
kinase in human mammary carcinoma
extracts
extracts of human primary and secondary
mammary carcinomas were shown to
contain steroid sulfokinase(s) in every case
examined.  examination of normal
breast tissue surrounding the tumors revealed
very weak steroid sulfokinase
activity in some instances.  this was thought to
be due to the fibrous nature and
poor cellularity of the normal breast tissue.
normal ovarian tissue specimens,
obtained from cancer patients undergoing
oophorectomy, did not generally
contain the enzyme, but trace levels were detected
in 1 of 5 specimens examined.
steroids, without necessarily showing conversion
to steroid sulfate, were observed
to increase the incorporation of s35-sulfate into
one of the products formed enzy-
mically on incubating breast tissue extracts
with s35-adenosine-3'-phosphate-5'-
phosphosulfate.
.I 446
.W
3752. steroid excretion in early breast cancer
patients with advanced breast cancer
who subsequently fail to respond to adrenalec-
tomy or hypophysectomy have been
found to excrete abnormal amounts of the
urinary metabolites of androgen and
cortisol.  when similar measurements are
carried out on patients with early breast
cancer, it is found that approximately half
the cases presenting for mastectomy are
also excreting abnormal amounts of these
steroids.  subsequent follow-up shows that
these cases tend to have a poor progno-
sis, and a trial had therefore been started
in which the abnormality is being cor-
rected.  in addition, it seems possible that
the deficiency in adrogen excretion may
precede the onset of the disease.  this
problem is being investigated in a trial
involving urinary steroid estimations in
5000 normal women.  the measurements
are being compared with the subsequent
development of breast cancer.
.I 447
.W
2365. the excretion of oestrone, pregnanediol
and pregnanetriol in breast
cancer patients.  i. excretion after spontaneous
menopause
the urinary excretion of oestrone, pregnanediol and
pregnanetriol was determined
in a series of postmenopausal breast cancer patients
receiving no endocrine treat-
ment.  the steroid excretion was studied
both in relation to the age of the patients
as well as in relation to the time elapsed
since the last menstrual cycle.  the results
indicate that after an initial slow decrease
from the age of the menopause onward,
the excretion of oestrone and preganediol
increases again.  a new maximum was
found in the group 10-15 yr. after the
menopause.  the excretion of pregnanetriol
however, remains relatively constant
after a more rapid fall during the first few
years after the menopause.
.I 448
.W
2366. the excretion of oestrone,
pregnanediol and pregnanetriol in breast
cancer patients.  ii. effect of ovariectomy,
ovarian irradiation and corticos-
teroids.
the urinary excretion of oestrone,
pregnanediol and pregnanetriol was determined
in breast cancer patients at different
stages of their endocrine treatment.  the
results demonstrate that corticosteroids
in substitution doses (cortisone 50 mg. daily
or prednisone 10 mg. daily, divided in 4
daily doses) are very effective in depressing
the excretion of all 3 steroids in postmenopausal
patients.  this is in agreement with
the clinical impression that these easily tolerated
small doses of corticosteroids have
the same therapeutic effect as adrenalectomy in
patients with breast cancer.  the
results indicate that the ovaries may contribute
to the production of oestrogens for
many years after the menopause, and that this
production is depressed by ovarian
irradiation.  this is in agreement with the clinical
observation that ovarian irra-
diation has a therapeutic value in postmenopausal
women with breast cancer.
.I 449
.W
414. estimation of the urinary
17-ketosteroids in the diagnosis of car-
cinoma of the prostate
in 33 patients with histologically
confirmed carcinoma and in 37 patients with
confirmed benign hyperplasia of the
prostate the amount of neutral 17-ketosteroids
was estimated in 24-hr. samples of
urine.  the results revealed that, contrary to
reports in the literature, this diagnostic
method is quite unreliable.  raised
17-ketosteroid levels were found also in
a high percentage of control subjects.
moreover, the estimation of 17-ketosteroids
is a very laborious biochemical
method and involves a relatively great
experimental error.
.I 450
.W
2820. influence of small doses of corticosteroids
on the excretion of pregnanetriol and oestrone
in a series of patients with breast cancer
excretion of oestrone and pregnanetriol
was determined.  with administration of
corticosteroids oestrone excretion in
postmenopausal women diminished   67%.
a decrease of pregnanetriol ex-
cretion values was observed as well.  evidently
a low oestrone excretion in patients
subjected to corticosteroid therapy is due to a
depression of the adrenal function.
.I 451
.W
5062. urinary ii-deoxy-17-oxosteroids
in british and japanese women with
reference to the incidence of breast cancer
japanese women excrete more andosterene
(5a) relative to aetiocholanone (5b)
than do british women living in tokyo.  the
mean 5a/5b ratio in the former is 1.3
and in the latter 1.0, and these means differ
significantly.  the ratio is markedly
affected by thyroid function, and thyroid
disease has been reported to affect the
incidence of breast cancer which in japan is
only one eighth of that in white women
in north america or great britain.
.I 452
.W
5318. the plasma 17-ketosteroids and
17-hydrocorticosteroids in women
with breast cancer
in 100 women in the menopause with breast cancer
the mean level of plasma 17-
ketosteroids (17-ks) and 17-hydroxycorticosteroids
(17-ohcs) was significantly
higher than in normal women of equivalent age.
in 67 young women only the
level of the plasma 17-ohcs was significantly higher
than normal.  in menopausal
women with breast cancer whether treated or not
there is no correlation between
the level of the plasma 17-ks and that of 17-ohcs.
.I 453
.W
5319. urinary porter-silber chromogens
following intravenous metho-
pyrapone and acth in patients with breast cancer
urinary porter-silber chromogens have been
measured in 2 groups of patients
with breast cancer before, during and after
intravenous methopyrapone and
acth administration.  the control group
consisted of females free of disease
5 years or more following mastectomy while
the study group had documented
metastatic disease.  no significant difference in
the urinary porter-silber chromo-
gens was found between the 2 groups on any day
during the course of the study and
were within the range of normal as measured
in this laboratory.  it is concluded
that the functional reserve capacity for both
pituitary acth secretion and adreno-
cortical steroidogenesis in patients with
advanced metastatic breast cancer is rela-
tively normal.
.I 454
.W
2349. amyloidosis in the autopsy material of the pathology department of
tuberculosis institute, warsaw, in 1945-1962
the autopsy material of the pathology
department of the tuberculosis institute, in
1945-1962, included 1218 postmortem
examinations of patients who died from tuberculo-
sis.  in 111 cases tuberculosis was
complicated by amyloidosis.  in 1945-1957 amy-
loidosis accounted for 8.7% of the cases;
in 1958-1962 this percentage was 10.8.
there was no difference in the incidence
between men and women, the only difference
between the two sexes was that the peak
tuberculosis fatality curve in men was in
the 40-60 years age group, and that of
amyloidosis at the 20-30 age group, while in
women the greatest number of death from
tuberculosis was in the 20-30 age group,
and from amyloidosis in the 30-40 age group.
.I 455
.W
766. certain features of the haemogram in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis
complicated by amyloidosis (russian)
regression of amyloidosis in the early stages
seems possible and for this reason
russian clinicians are exploring the possibilities
of finding means of early diagnosis
of this complication.  the author studied 300
complete clinical blood analyses made
in 60 patients, viz. 30 with chronic fibrocavernous
and cirrhotic forms of tb com-
plicated by amyloidosis and 30 with the same forms
of tb without amyloidosis.  from
detailed serial study of the haemogram in patients
with pulmonary tb it is possible
to diagnose associated amyloidosis of the internal
organs in its initial stage.  the
presence of amyloidosis of the internal organs can
be inferred from the following
changes in the blood picture  (a) the appearance of
normochromic and hypochromic
anaemia in patients with various forms of tb (with
the exception of tb of the kidneys,
intestinal tract or larynx, and of caseous lymph
nodes), (b) progressive increase
in the leucocyte count with a neutrophil shift to
the left not corresponding with a
phase of quiescence of the main disease, (c) consistently
high esr in the absence
of an active process, (d) thrombocytosis in the phase of
subsidence of a flare-up,
and also changes in the thrombocytic formula tending
towards the appearance of de-
generative forms and old and mature thrombocytes.
.I 456
.W
1319. diffuse tracheo-bronchial amyloidosis  a rare variant of a protean disease
a patient with diffuse tracheo-bronchial
amyloidosis is described; brief clinical
details supplement those published in a
previous report (prowse,1958) and are
followed by an account of the necropsy
findings and the histological appearances
at the site of amyloid deposition.  the
literature is reviewed and arguments are
advanced in favour of a common aetiology
for amyloidosis in all its forms.  if this
acts through the immunity mechanism, it is
suggested that variations in the site,
strength, duration, and frequency of the
antigen stimulus and the antibody response
may determine the nature and distribution
of the amyloid deposits.
.I 457
.W
2091. modern methods of treatment of visceral amyloidosis in patients with
pulmonary tuberculosis (russian)
the immediate and long-term results of
treatment during 1945-1962 of 414 patients
with pulmonary tuberculosis complicated
by amyloidosis were studied.  hormonal
(corticosteroid) therapy is the pathogenetic
treatment for visceral amyloidosis and
is indicated in the proteinuric and early
edema-hypotonic phase of amyloidosis when
the functional capacity of the kidneys and
the liver is still adequate.  in the azotemic
phase of amyloidosis, hormonal (corticosteroid)
therapy is not indicated, since it
leads to rapid deterioration in the patient's
condition.  since hypoxemia is one of the
main factors in the pathogenesis of amyloidosis,
oxygen therapy is rational patho-
genetic therapy for patients with pulmonary
tuberculosis complicated by hypoxemia
and with symptoms of the proteinuric or
edema-hypotonic phase of amyloidosis
(without ascites), in the form of
subcutaneous introduction of oxygen or oxy-
geno-peritoneum.  in patients with
pulmonary tuberculosis surgical interven-
tion on account of the main process
is indicated only in the early stages of amyloi-
dosis when pronounced functional
disorders of the kidneys and liver are absent.  co-
joint therapy using protein vitamins
(particularly ascorbic acid), hormonal (corticos-
teroid) preparations, oxygen and
desensitizing agents and elimination of all foci of
infection is indicated in treatment
of pulmonary tuberculosis with even the earliest
signs of amyloidosis.
.I 458
.W
2317. the use of needle biopsy of the liver in the diagnosis of visceral
amyloidosis in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (russian)
the results of 86 puncture biopsies of the
liver in 84 patients with pulmonary tuber-
culosis (55 men and 31 women aged from
18 to 73 yr.) for the purpose of diagnosing
amyloidosis are reported.  puncture was
performed when amyloidosis was suspected
on the basis of the case history (destructive
process of more than 2-3 years' duration),
clinical signs in the form of enlargement of
the liver and spleen, edema, changes
in the blood picture and blood protein formula,
and changes in the urine (proteinuria,
cylindruria, isohyposthenuria).  amyloidosis
was diagnosed or its presence surmised
before puncture in 23 patients; the puncture
biopsy confirmed the diagnosis in 14
and refuted it in 9 of them.  in 8 patients without
clinical symptoms, amyloidosis
was diagnosed on the basis of the puncture biopsy
alone.  in 9 cases with fatal out-
come, the post-mortem findings coincided with
the results of the bioptic puncture.
of the 62 patients in whom amyloidosis was not
detected by biopsy, 31 had moderate
dystrophic changes and 9 had marked dystrophic
changes while in 22 cases no patho-
logical changes were found; 6 of these patients
later developed amyloidosis.  these
findings supported the contention that liver
amyloidosis is linked with dystrophic
changes in the epithelial cells.  marked
dystrophic changes can precede amyloidosis
or may occur simultaneously with it.  moderate
dystrophic changes are quite common
in patients with an exacerbating tuberculous
process in the lungs.  the wide applica-
tion of bioptic puncture of the liver in indicated
cases can increase our knowledge
of the morphological changes taking place in the
liver in tb.
.I 459
.W
2701. the role of certain additional factors in the development of amyloidosis,
and its prophylaxis in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (russian)
in patients with chronic fibrocavernous
tuberculosis of the lungs, any toxic-aller-
gic side reactions to antibacterial therapy,
chronic foci or infection and diseases
with an allergic component can contribute
to the development of amyloidosis.  the
early detection and clearing of chronic
foci of infection and effective measures
against even mildly pronounced toxic-allergic
side reactions are of prime impor-
tance in the prevention of amyloidosis.  the
unsystematic and prolonged administra-
tion of antibacterial preparations, along with
their toxic side effects, tends to in-
crease the incidence of amyloidosis in patients
with chronic fibrocavernous pulmon-
ary tb.  individual constitutional factors are
of great importance in the development
of side effects.  side reactions to chemopreparations,
in cases of hypofunction of
the liver and kidneys and autonomic
dysfunction promote the development of dys-
trophic processes, as is confirmed
by the high frequency of toxic-allergic reac-
tions in patients with fibrocavernous
pulmonary tb who later develop amyloidosis.
the administration of desensitizing drugs
to patients showing side reactions there-
fore helps to prevent amyloidosis in cases
of chronic fibrocavernous tb, and chemo-
therapy should be automatically combined
with the administration of desensitizing
and stimulatory drugs in this class of case.
.I 460
.W
1835. the decrease of the steroids in the urine in the course of lung tb.
(the therapeutic value of their increase after calciferol)
quantitative determination of the urinary
steroids in 38 patients with extensive ul-
cero-caseous pulmonary tb confirmed
that the 17-ketosteroids are always decreased
in these cases.  calciferol, in the form
of one ampoule of vit.  d2 of 600,000 u.
every 10 days, in combination with active
tuberculostatic drugs, in the majority of
the cases leads to an increase of the
urinary 17-ketosteroids from 50 to 100% in 2
mth.  it appears that the calciferol
exerts its action through proteolysis; it stimulates
the liquefaction and evacuation of the
caseous material.  this proteolytic effect is
related to that of the mineralocorticoids,
which are phlogistic and proteolytic sub-
stances.  calciferol offers the advantage
over these substances that it does not affect
the electrolytes and is well tolerated by
the organism.  for this reason, good results
may be expected from its administration
in cases of extensive pulmonary tb, in
which the myc. tuberculosis has remained
sensitive to the administered tuberculostic
drugs but nevertheless does not proceed
towards recovery because of the marked caseous
lesions.  in such cases calciferol treatment
leads to a rapid and pronounced decrease
of the radiological shadows, improves the
general condition and also modifies the
steroid metabolism rendered abnormal by the disease.
.I 461
.W
1837. development of amylosis in less than 2 months in the course of a primary
tb infection
the case is reported of a previously healthy
young north-african male, in whom
a post-primary ulcero-infiltrative tb in less
than 2 mth. led to the development of
visceral amyloidosis, which could be confirmed
by biopsies of the kidney and liver.
during treatment with antibiotics,
the hepatic amyloidosis regressed parallel with
the improvement of the tb, and the
biological signs of the renal amyloidosis dis-
appeared with the exception of a
pronounced proteinuria, the persistence of which
renders the long-term prognosis highly doubtful.
.I 462
.W
2216. the relations between lupus erythematosus and diseases of the
lympho-reticular system
a case report of a patient with led
(aged 48 years), who developed secondarily
a lymphoblastic sarcoma.  when the
sarcomatous degeneration of the lympho-
reticular system became apparent,
the serological and immuno-hematological tests,
typical for led, were negative.  to
interpret the observation, 62 further patients
with lymphogranuloma, lymphosarcoma,
leukemias, other malignant tumors, sar-
coidosis, and tuberculosis were investigated
serologically and immunohematolo-
gically.  antinuclear factors were found in
serum of 4 patients with lymphogranulo-
ma, one patient with anaplastic carcinoma,
and one patient with metastasizing
mixed parotid-tumor.  the identity of the
antinuclear antibodies with those found in
led could not be proved by different methods.
the importance of certain diseases
of the lympho-reticular system for the production
of antinuclear factors was dis-
cussed.
.I 463
.W
4417. value and significance of the prednisolone test in diseases of the kidney
twelve normal subjects, 18 cases of
tubulo-interstitial nephropathy, 12 cases of
glomerular nephropathy and 17 cases
of other renal disorders were investigated.
all patients were given a prednisolone
test, with urine culture before and after the
test, and in many instances determination
of the urinary osmolarity; the urinary
sediment was examined with the sternheimer
and malbin staining technique and
with the peroxydase stain to investigate the
urinary cytology.  with the criteria
adopted, the test was negative in the normals
and was positive in 61.1% of the cases
of chronic pyelonephritis and in 12.1% of the
remaining cases of unequivocally non-
infectious renal disease.  the increase of the
urinary bacterial count after cortico-
steroid administration, and investigation of the
various components of the urinary
sediment also supplied useful diagnostic
information.  on the contrary, the stern-
heimer-malbin stain for the urinary
sediment proved of little use.
.I 464
.W
564. tumoral amyloidosis of the lung
an incidental finding at necropsy on a woman
aged 95 was a tumor-like mass, 8.5
x 6.5 x 6 cm., in the lower lobe of the left lung.
the detailed structure of this
may suggested angioma of hamartoma; the stroma
and some vessels contained
amyloid.  amyloid is not uncommon in the stroma
of tumors.  a summary of 17
tumoral amyloid cases reported by others is included.
.I 465
.W
7364. experimental amyloidosis in immunity
much of interest in the mechanism of
experimental amyloidosis as a result of the
parenteral introduction of foreign protein
has been centered around the nature of
the links leading to cytological and biochemical
changes in tissues and body fluids.
some of the authors suggested that such links
may be of immunological nature.
there is however, no clear-cut proof either
in favor of or against the theory of an
immunological origin of amyloid.  since
injection of proteins during the perinatal
period prevents an immune response when
the animal is subsequently challenged
with the same antigen, the authors studied
amyloidosis caused by casein in mice
treated after birth with this protein.  mice
exposed soon after birth to casein ac-
quire an immune tolerance to this antigen.
this was demonstrated by the absence
of circulating antibodies as measured by the
disappearance of i-labeled casein
from the circulation and by means of passive
hemagglutination tests with ascitic
fluids.  both tolerant and control animals
developed amyloidosis to the same extent.
the results imply that the pathogenesis of
amyloidosis does not rest upon a classic
immunological basis; they do not exclude
the possibility, that the disease may be
due to some auto-immune process.
.I 466
.W
3535. electron microscopic study of six cases of human renal amyloidosis
this study is particularly concerned
with  (a) the basal membrane in the different
stages; and (b) the intercapillary spaces
in the early stages.  the conclusions may
be put as follows  (1) the amyloid substance
seems to have a fibrillar structure
from the start.  (2) when the walls of the
peripheral capillary loops are thickened
by voluminous amyloid deposits, the
hyaline aspect of the primitive basal membrane
persists, but its structure is altered by
the presence of multiple amyloid fibrils.
(3) on the other hand, in the initial stages,
amyloid fibrils cannot be seen in the
'lamina densa' of the basal membrane; they
only appear on the epithelial and endo-
thelial surfaces of the membrane.  this suggests
that amyloidosis represents an
abnormal precipitate of extrinsic origin, rather
than a transformation 'in situ'
of the basal membrane.  (4) in the very early stages
of amyloid infiltration into the
glomeruli the fibrillar substance is found first in
the intercapillary spaces, only
later does it reach the peripheral capillary walls.
.I 467
.W
3544. morphology and development of infectious-toxic affections of the kidneys
in pulmonary tuberculosis (russian)
the kidneys of 75 patients dead from tb of
the lungs and of 30 rabbits with pulmonary
tb were examined.  the first lesions develop
in the glomeruli, followed by changes
in the stroma and tubules.  infectious-toxic
affection of the kidneys is a complex and
prolonged process involving organic immune
reactions, lymphostasis, venous stasis
and finally nephrosclerosis.  infectious-toxic
lesions were found in one third of the patients
who died of pulmonary tb.  these changes had
produced clinical manifestations, on the
basis of which the following affections had been
diagnosed  nephritis, nephrosis, amyloi-
dosis.  antibacterial therapy of the pulmonary
process reduced the renal lesions.  how-
ever, severe infectious-toxic affection of the kidneys
may develop after recovery from
pulmonary tb.
.I 468
.W
3553. diffuse nodular amyloidosis of the lungs
in a 59-year-old man, who 12 yr. previously
had ceased working in an aluminium
factory and who had died from respiratory
insufficiency, the postmortem examination
revealed disseminated nodules in the lungs.
the nodules were sharply defined, of
a greyish color and of a doughy consistency
and could easily be removed from their
capsules.  the diagnosis of amyloidosis was
made on the basis of the histological
findings, the staining qualities of the material,
its intraseptal and periarteriolar
localization, and the existence of plasmocytic
infiltrates and foreign-body giant-cell
granulomas.  amyloid deposits were also found
in the spleen, kidney and some
coronary branches.  in regard to the pathogenesis,
it is suggested that the exposure
to aluminium products for more than 10 yr. might
have constituted a predisposing
factor.
.I 469
.W
3724. the bacterial induction of homograft sensitivity. ii. effects of
sensitization with staphylococci and other microorganisms
heat-killed strains of staph. aureus and staph.
albus can induce in guinea pigs a
state of altered reactivity to skin homografts
which is indistinguishable from that
which results from sensitization with homologous
tissues or group a streptococci.
challenge of suitably prepared recipients
with 1st-set skin homografts obtained
from unrelated randomly selected donors
elicits white graft reactions or accelera-
ted rejections of such grafts.  other bacteria
tested included lancefield streptococcal
groups b, c, d, e, g, h, l, and o,
pneumococcus types ii, iii, xiv and a rough
strain, c. xerosis, b. subtilis, e. coli,
a. aerogenes, s. typhimurium, pr. vul-
garis, n. catarrhalis, h. influenzae, and
2 human virulent strains of myc. tuber-
culosis.  none of these microorganisms was
active in the induction of homograft
sensitivity in the guinea pig.  pretreatment of
recipients with gram-negative bac-
terial suspensions was associated with a slight
increase in the mean survival time
of 1st-set skin homografts.  results of this study
suggest the presence in staphylo-
cocci, as well as in group a streptococci, of antigens
related in their biologic ef-
fects to tissue transplantation antigens.
.I 470
.W
6590. structure and function of cross-linked dna. i. reversible denaturation and
bacillus subtilis transformation
reaction of nitrous acid with dna
results in covalent linkage of complementary
polynucleotide strands.  the resulting
material denatures reversibly and retains
biological activity in bacterial transformation.
.I 471
.W
4958. the mechanism of messenger-rna replication in bacteria
the transformation of bacillus subtilis
sb25 his-tryp-by two linked genetic mar-
kers under the action of hybrid molecules
of dna was investigated.  the molecular
hybrids were obtained by thermal denaturation
and annealing of a mixture of two
dna's, each one extracted from a single
auxotrophic strain (h25 his-and 168 tryp-).
the formation of the heterozygous dna
double helices was proved by special experi-
ments.  the transformation procedure
excluded dna synthesis by recipient cells
prior to the formation of enzymes for
histidine and tryptophane synthesis.  it was
found that heterozygous molecules of
dna are able to transform in these conditions
the double auxotrophic cells to prototrophic
ones.  this means that both strands of
the dna double helix can serve as templates
for the m-rna synthesis.  the possi-
bility of a secondary replication of m-rna
outside the chromosome under the action
of rna-polymerases, using rna as a primer,
is discussed.
.I 472
.W
2567. the molecular basis of histidase induction in bacillus subtilis
bacillus subtilis growing at 37  on
glutamate, as only carbon source, is induced
to form histidase by l-histidine.  this
enzyme, converting histidine to urocanic
acid, was isolated in a purified form.
a highly sensitive and convenient assay for
the induced enzyme is described and
applied to show that histidase appears in the
cell 5 min. after addition of the inducer.
histidase-synthesizing capacity appears
after 2 min. and decays exponentially after
addition of actinomycin (an inhibitor
of dna-dependent rna synthesis).  the
half-time value of histidase-synthesizing
capacity of 2.4 is high, compared with the
half-time value of messenger rna.
the histidase formation after addition of
actinomycin was not only due to protein
synthesis directed by accumulated m-rna
but also by conversion of an enzymatical-
ly inactive protein, present on the moment
of actinomycin addition and product of
the specific m-rna, to the active enzyme.
the existence of this enzyme pre-
cursor was shown by means of experiments
performed in the presence of chlor-
amphenicof.  finally, numerical values for
the steady state of histidase synthesis,
reached 9 min. after addition of the inducer,
are calculated, on the basis of ki-
netics of histidase synthetic capacity, precursor
and enzyme formation  the cell
contains sufficient precursor to form
approximately 100 molecules of histidase.
the cell produces approximately 50
molecules histidase per min.  the cell ac-
quires and loses, every minute, the
capacity to make 15 molecules of histidase
per minute.  the maximal enzyme
level is 15,000 molecules per cell.
.I 473
.W
2542. symposium on the fine structure and replication of bacteria and their
parts. ii. bacterial cytoplasm
comparison of the fine structure of the
cytoplasm of the bacterial cell with that of
the 'cell in general' reveals important
differences leading to the conclusion that, in
the bacterial cytoplasm, there is little
differentiation into separate functional en-
tities.  there is no nuclear membrane, and
fine fibrils appear to extend from the nucleo-
plasm into the cytoplasm where they may
expand in all directions.  the cytoplasm is not
necessarily intersected by membranous
profiles of special configuration, as is borne
out by e. coli b and other gram-negative
organisms.  when membranous profiles
of special configuration are present, as
in the gram-positive b. subtilis, these
do not appear differentiated into clearly
definable endoplasmic reticulum, golgi
substance, microbodies, etc., and mitochondria.
as for kinetosomes, the presence
of centrioles is perhaps not very likely.  the
experiments in which tellurite is re-
duced in the cells suggest that there are
structures at the base of the flagella with
reductive capacity.  however, upon application
of the tetranitro-blue tetrazolium
technic to b. subtilis, these are not stained.
they are presumably identical with
basal granules.  the membranous structures
in b. subtilis are called chondrioids
by the author because probably one of their
functions is that they are the sites of
the respiratory enzyme chain.  in the
gram-negative p. vulgaris, the probable site
of the respiratory chain has a structure
very different from that in the bacillus; it
is not clear whether membranes are
involved in their structure.  morphologically,
even in b. subtilis chondrioids differ
fundamentally from the mitochondria in that
they are not built up from composite
membranes, they are extensions of the plasma
membrane, and they may not be completely
closed systems.  regarding this last
point, it was observed that chondrioids may
possibly stand in open connection with
the cell's environment, since its lumen is not
separated from the cell wall by a
plasma membrane.  although as yet nothing is
known about this, it does not seem to
be precluded that these membranous organelles
may function also as intracellular
transport systems.  contrary to porter's ideas
about er, the chondrioids are not
extensions of a nuclear envelope, but of the
plasma membrane.  on the other hand,
they are in the nuclear area, in direct contact
with the nucleoplasm, and therefore,
perhaps, they need not carry in their interior
some dna, as is now becoming known
for ordinary mitochondria.  the chromatophore
vesicle is of a simple structure and
in connection with the plasma membrane.  it is
covered by a single membrane and
thus resembles the granum disc, but it is much
smaller.  in tissue cells, an im-
portant function of the er is the support of protein
synthesis by ribosomes bound
to their surfaces.  evidence is now accumulating
that the active complexes for poly-
peptide synthesis in bacteria are also membrane-bound
and are series of 70s ribo-
somes using the same messenger rna molecule.
it remains a contradictory situ-
ation that the particles obtained here through release
of cytoplasm from protoplasts
in diluted, rather crude fixing media, and identified
as ribosomes, could not be
recognized as such in thin sections of the ryter-kellenberger
fixed protoplasts.
this point is much in need of clarification.  but
even if the cytoplasm in the thin
sections of the protoplasts is in a state of
dispersion brought about artificially, it
is still apparent from the various micrographs
that basically the cytoplasm is a
network of presumably linear arrays, with many
interconnections due to fibrillar
systems.  fibrils from the nucleoplasm penetrate
deeply into the cytoplasm.  the
presence of fine fibrils of various thicknesses,
electron densities, and orientations
makes high-resolution study of the cytoplasmic
details an intriguing prospect from
which much fundamental information can be
gained.  the organizational pattern on
the ultrastructural level in bacteria reveals
fundamental similarities and divergen-
cies from that in the 'cell in general'.
.I 474
.W
906. molecular mechanism of genetic recombination in bacterial transformation
the mechanism of dna incorporation into
the recipient cell chromosome was in-
vestigated in a b. subtilis transformation
system.  the recipient cells were auxo-
trophic for 2 linked markers.  hybrid dna
used for transformation was heterozy-
gous for one of these markers.  no differences
in transformation activity were found
when the effect of native and hybrid dna was
compared.  according to the authors
this observation is easily explained if we accept
that each of both complementary
strands of the donor dna can be incorporated
into the recipient chromosome with
equal probability.  the results on the segregation
of genetic characters in the pro-
geny of transformed cells are also consistent
with the model of independent incorpo-
ration of both dna strands.  some calculations
were done on the probability of the
integration of a single dna strand carrying a
particular genetic marker, and on the
probability of recombination leading to double transformants.
.I 475
.W
1520. multiplication of bacteriophages
the reproduction of bacteriophages requires
the participation of bacterial metabol-
ism.  synthesis of the viral protein components
is accomplished by the same me-
chanism as ordinarily produces bacterial
proteins; however, for the synthesis of
nucleic acids (dna or rna) enzymes may
be required which are not present in non-
infected bacteria; their formation is then
induced by the virus itself.  the fundamental
biological processes of replication, transcription
and translation are discussed in
this context.
.I 476
.W
1361. the mechanism of histidase induction and formation in bacillus subtilis
the role of the inducer, l-histidine, in the
synthesis of histidase (l-histidine am-
monia lyase) in b. subtilis was investigated.
it was found that induced cells poisoned
with actinomycin, an inhibitor of rna synthesis,
lose their capacity for the forma-
tion of a protein precursor of histidase at a rate
which is independent of the presence
or absence of the inducer.  these results show
that the inducer does not increase
the intracellular level of histidase-specific
messenger rna by preventing the des-
truction of the major portion of this material,
the fraction that is engaged in pro-
tein synthesis.  the possibility has not been
excluded that the inducer exerts its
effect by bringing about the stabilization of
the messenger rna that is still attached
to dna or has not yet become attached to
ribosomes.  alternatively, the inducer may
actually stimulate the synthesis of
histidase-specific messenger rna.  the conver-
sion of the precursor to active enzyme
appears to involve polymerization of mono-
mers, rather than the release of
ribosome-bound inactive enzyme.
.I 477
.W
1362. the synthesis of phage and host dna in the establishment of lysogeny
a method of extraction is described which
prevents excessive fragmentation of bac-
terial dna.  the larger bacterial dna can
then be separated from the phage dna
on sucrose gradients.  the relative amounts
of phage and host dna made at various
times during infection of s. typhimurium
with phage p22 leading to lysogeny have
been determined.  phage-specific dna
synthesis begins at about 4 min, continues
to increase for 2-4 min, and then decreases
until complete repression is attained
at 16 min.  autonomous phage dna synthesis
remains repressed from then on.  bac-
teria-specific synthesis proceeds at a
decreasing rate until about 16 min, when
almost complete inhibition is reached.
when dna synthesis recovers in the in-
fected cells, only host-specific material
is made.  a new species of dna, which is
made only when phage dna is synthesized,
has been detected.  the possible implica-
tions of these findings in the understanding
of the lysogenic interaction is discussed.
.I 478
.W
438. lag period characterizing the entry of transforming deoxyribonucleic acid
into bacillus subtilis
the kinetics of appearance of transformants
as a function of time of exposure to
dna has been studied.  a short lag period
of approximately 1 min at 37 c is evi-
dent when the transformation is terminated
with deoxyribonuclease.  the length of
this lag is independent of the genetic trait
transferred.  moreover, the lag is unaf-
fected by transforming dna concentration,
by the presence of homologous unmarked
dna, and by shearing and cross-linking of
the transforming dna.  the lag shows
a strong inverse temperature dependence.
the energy of activation is 13.9 kcal.
the lag is abolished when the transformation
is terminated by washing instead of
by addition of deoxyribonuclease.  these results
are taken to indicate an immediate
adsorption of dna to cells, followed by a
deoxyribonuclease-sensitive period of
1 min, during which time the genetic trait
is entering the cell.  these results make
feasible an investigation of the configuration
assumed by the dna molecule during
entry into the cell.
.I 479
.W
439. configuration of transforming deoxyribonucleic acid during entry into
bacillus subtilis
a correlation was obtained between map
distance and the length of the lag period
preceding the appearance of pairs of genetic
traits after the addition of dna to a
competent culture of b. subtilis.  the results
are taken to indicate that dna enters
competent cells in lengthwise fashion.
the smallest length of transforming dna
which can participate in a recombination
event, and the number of nucleotide pairs
which enter the cell per unit time, have
been estimated.  the evidence indicates
that only part of the lag period is devoted
to the transport of dna into the cell.
the significance of these results with
respect to the mechanism of entry of dna
into the cell is discussed.
.I 480
.W
2564. chemical inactivation and reactivation of transforming dna (russian)
the kinetics of the inactivation of linked
and unlinked genetic markers by means
of hno2 or uv light was studied.  closely
linked markers are inactivated simul-
taneously, unlinked markers are inactivated
independently.  it seems that the
chemical attack on dna impairs a large part
of macromolecule, including many
cistrons.  it was shown by genetic experiments
that chemical inactivation prac-
tically does not influence the process of dna
inclusion into competent cells.  by
means of viscosity measurements it was
shown that the molecular weight and
macromolecular properties of dna do not
significantly change during chemical
inactivation by means of hno2.  two explanations
for the inactivation of trans-
forming activity of dna are discussed  (1) structural
deteriorations, preventing
integration of dna molecule into the genome of
recipient cell, or (2) deletion of
a chain unit out of dna chain resulting in wrong
reading of code triplets.  it was
previously described in the literature that extensive
inactivation leads to a state
of dna, apparently more resistant than the initial one.
inactivation does not con-
firm to exponential kinetics.  the authors discuss the
coding mistake hypothesis
as an explanation for this remarkable fact.  extensive
hno2 or uv light action re-
sults in multiple lesions in the dna molecule and
leads to reactivation because
the deletions restore correct reading of the code
in a large part of dna molecule.
on the basis of this explanation reactivation of
chemically injured dna by means
of fusion and annealing with homologous but
genetically inactive dna, or by slight
fragmentation of dna by means of ultrasonic
vibrations may be expected.  attempts
to achieve reactivation by both methods gave
positive results.
.I 481
.W
2565. separation of the transforming and viral deoxyribonucleic acids of a
transducing bacteriophage of bacillus subtilis
the authors used the transducing b. subtilis
phage ps 10 and present the fol-
lowing experimental data  dna isolated from
ps 10 is effective for transformation
of competent b. subtilis cells.  ps 10 dna is
distinguishable from b. subtilis dna
by its higher density in a cs2so4 gradient and
its lower thermal denaturation
temperature.  the transforming activity present
in dna from ps 10 denatures at
a temperature characteristic of b. subtilis dna
rather than of viral dna.  the
transforming activity of ps 10 dna bands in a
cs2so4 gradient with bacterial dna.
this data indicated that bacterial dna is
incorporated into phage ps 10 without
being integrated in the viral dna.  this incorporated
bacterial dna is involved
in transduction.
.I 482
.W
2529. repair of damage induced by a monofunctional alkylating agent in a
transformable, ultraviolet-sensitive strain of bacillus subtilis
a uv sensitive, transformable strain of
b. subtilis (uvr-) was unable to carry out
host cell reactivation of the virulent
bacteriophage spo1.  the ratio of the slopes
(kuvr-/kuvr+) of the uv inactivation curves
was 6-8 for cells or for whole phage, and 2
for indole+ transforming dna or for
spo1 phage dna measured in a transforming
system.  whole phage inactivated with
nitrogen mustard showed greater survival on
uvr+ cells than on uvr-; there was no such
difference for whole phage inactivated with
methyl methanesulfonate.  whole uvr+ cells
recovered from uv induced damage, as
determined by an increase in extractable
transforming activity during a period of
incubation in which net dna synthesis did
not occur.  uvr- cells were unable to reco-
ver from uv induced damage but they did
recover from methyl methanesulfonate
induced damage in similar experiments.
density labeled (h2n15) methyl methanesul-
fonate treated uvr+ cells incubated in (h1n14)
medium containing (h3) thymidine show-
ed a 3-fold increase in extractable transforming
activity, with no formation of new
dna molecules as determined by pyknometric
analysis.  the repair of damage in-
duced by uv irradiation differs by at least one
step from the repair of damage in-
duced by methyl methanesulfonate.
.I 483
.W
1451. the biosynthesis of 5-hydroxymethyldeoxyuridylic acid in
bacteriophage-infected bacillus subtilis
when phage  e, which contains
5-hydroxymethyluracil in its dna in place of thymine,
infects b. subtilis, enzyme changes
occur in the host organism which can account
for the synthesis of the abnormal base.
deoxycytidylate deaminase increases at
least 90-fold and the product of its action,
deoxyuridylic acid, is converted directly
into the deoxynucleotide of 5-hydroxymethyluracil
by a hydroxymethylase enzyme.
the activity of thymidylate synthetase, which also
uses deoxyuridylic acid as
substrate, decreases rapidly after phage infection.
.I 484
.W
5574. death anxiety in children with a fatal illness
the author reports studies of a series
of 50 children hospitalized because of fatal
illness due to leukemia or some other
form of cancer.  it was postulated that the
younger children would experience
separation anxiety while the older children
would be more likely to experience
death anxiety.  in general the hypothesis
was supported by the results of the study.
there was some evidence to indicate that
the younger children perceive death
anxiety but deal with it in more symbolic form.
in older children, it was felt that boys
tended to react to death anxiety by acting out
behavior while girls tended to become depressed.
.I 485
.W
1209. the theory and practice of the family diagnostic.  ii. theoretical
aspects and resident education
family intervention and observation have proved
useful in 3 areas.  the 1st of these is observation of the
psychosocial context in the patient.  on admission to a
mental hospital the phenomenon of extrusion and separ-
ation from the family is evident, and the need for study
of the interaction between the patient and his family
milieu is vital.  the 2nd area where the family inter-
view has a major role is resident education.  the tra-
ditional medical education of the ill prepares the stu-
dent for consideration of the multifactorial problems of
emotional disorder in which balances between mem-
bers of a group may be the issue rather than external
pathogenes.  the family interview offers a unique point
of observation of factually evident and emotionally con-
vincing group data.  in addition to the observation of
family phenomena, mutual understanding of others'
problems is created.  finally, the family interview
serves as an instrument for data collection and hypo-
thesis seeking in relating individual psychopathology
to family adaptations.  the patient and his family at
the time of admission are dealing with a crisis.  some-
times this is traumatic, such as the unexpected loss
of a young marital partner, an unexpected illness, or
a financial reverse.  more commonly, however, it is
developmental being a natural part of the life cycle.
characteristically, the developmental task involved
in dealing with the crises has been postponed so that
one does not see the family at the age specific and ap-
propriate time for this task.  the crisis emerges dis-
ruptively because of inevitable biological maturation,
personal decision, or social expectation.  a primary
concern of the leader is to determine what life task is
being faced.  families have a mentally ill member not
merely because they are dealing with the vicissitudes
of life.  they are unable to cope with the crisis, be-
cause of the feelings which are aroused.  each life cri-
sis leads to a particular constellation of effects in any
given family.  these include primarily, sadness, anger,
and guilt, but there may well be specific affective con-
stellations appropriate to different developmental tasks.
the patient's inability to cope with a life crisis is due
to his particular adaptation of a style of dealing with
feelings that is employed by other members of the family.
.I 486
.W
265. studies in personality.  ii. a bio-psychological and experimental
approach to problems of human adaptation in modern society
experimentally determined fixation-ambivalence
measures are related to some anxiety estimates obtain-
ed from a projective test in a group of male adolescents.
it is shown that (1) fixation increases with increase in
corporal injury anxiety when ambivalence is kept con-
stant, (2) ambivalence increases with increase in separa-
tion anxiety when fixation is kept constant, (3) extremely
hetero-fixated subjects show presence of intense guilt
and absence of aggression towards the mother; one ef-
fect of this system of organizers seems to be
suicidal
tendencies, (4) extremely ambivalent subjects have in-
tense separation anxiety; one effect seems to be suicidal
tendencies combined with high ambition and impaired
cognitive capacity.
.I 487
.W
2837. early indicators of outcome in schizophrenia
the case material of 50 persons who
were seen at a child guidance center in child-
hood or adolescence and were later
hospitalized with schizophrenia were examined
intensively.  the study concentrated
especially on the differences associated with
chronicity vs. hospital release.  the
following 12 factors were significantly related
to chronicity  (1) psychotic or schizoid
pathology in the mothering person, (2) no se-
paration of any kind from the pathogenic
families, (3) pre-illness history of poor so-
cial and sexual adjustment, (4) failure
to continue in treatment (during childhood)
for at least 3 mth., (5) less acting out
in the community, (6) neither disorientation
nor confusion on admission, (7) no
symptoms of depressive psychosis, (8) premor-
bid schizoid personality, (9) no clear
precipitating events, (10) no concern with dying
during the acute phase of the illness,
(11) length of onset over 6 mth., and (12) schi-
zophrenic reaction in patients' heredity.
items 1, 2, and 5 were derived from early
life history data and are thought to be
new to the literature of prognosis in schizo-
phrenia.  the remaining 8 factors can be
scored from hospital data alone, and have
been cited in previous prognostic studies.
.I 488
.W
4854. on the formation of object-relations and identifications of the
kibbutz child
some of the issues relevant to the early
stages of object relation formation and
identification of kibbutz children are
discussed.  for this purpose the child rearing
milieu of the kibbutz child is described
and some clinical illustrations are given.
the relationship to the mother is seen
as the main object-relation and those to the
educators as transient-interchangeable
need-satisfying relationships.  on the basis
of retrospective analytical material it
appears that in the course of development
the two relations as well as the two
respective, originally distinct, object represen-
tations are synthetised into one.  the
conditions of communal education, character-
ised by double object-relation formation
from birth on, are seen as factors that in-
tensify the 'normative crisis of infancy',
especially the transition from the symbio-
tic to the separation-individuation stage
of object-relation development.
.I 489
.W
4846. the meaning of crying
the multiple meanings of crying are
reviewed and, in particular, stress is laid
on tears as a response to some type of separation loss.
.I 490
.W
2953. the death of a parent
in the case of depressive illnesses the death
of either parent prior to the child reach-
ing the age of 15 seemed to be correlated
as a significant contributory factor.  with
this exception, statistical studies suggest
that it is the death of a mother in the first
7 yr. of a child's life, as opposed to that
of a father, that is potentially an etiologi-
cal factor for the future development of
psychoses, delinquency and psychoneuroses.
the case histories of 6 boys who had lost
their fathers were given.  in each instance
there was distinct evidence that the psychological
symptoms and behavioral disturb-
ances were to be attributed in large measure
to the effect of the death upon the child,
and that in some cases the symptom choice was
to be correlated with specific cir-
cumstances surrounding the death of the father.
in some cases it was the unresolved
grief reaction in the mother which helped to
perpetuate the disorder in the child.  re-
solution of this in the mother during therapy
led to improvement in the child's func-
tioning.  in other instances improvement
occurred especially when the child ceased
to be preoccupied with a close identification
with the dead father.  those boys who
were involved most closely in their mother's
grief reactions were the ones who were
most disturbed.  the brief treatment given
these boys and their mothers appeared
to be responsible for the considerable
amelioration of symptoms that resulted.  ther-
apeutic intervention is worthwhile,
especially in those instances where there is an
unresolved grief reaction in the mother.
.I 491
.W
1848. the child's concept of death
in this translation of a paper, which first
appeared in 1912, it is shown, according
to freud, how far a child's appreciation
of being dead differs from its true signifi-
cance.  death means a reversible decrease
in life functions, that can be interrupted
at any time, like sleep.  at other times it
may mean a temporary separation; but
always it is in man's power to change it.
in this concept, the child's unconscious
finds license for his sadism.  cruelty to
animals and death wishes against persons
close to him appear, in overcompensation, as
exaggerated pity for dead creatures
and the belief in man's power over life and death.
.I 492
.W
1849. mother child interaction during separation individuation
after a stage of normal autism during the
1st weeks of extrauterine life, the infant
passes into a symbiotic phase, gradually
emerging from this stage of dual unity at
the end of the 5th mth and during the 6th mth.
just before this, the next phase
separation individuation begins.  four
characteristic subphases of this separation
individuation process are described
differentiation, the practicing period, association
and a stage, characterized by unfolding
of complex cognitive functions.  the relation
of mother and child throughout these
subphases are studied and illustrated by clinical
material.  a poor relation between mother
and child in 1 subphase does not necessarily
or usually preclude impressive changes
for the better in the next subphase.
.I 493
.W
2736. the emotional needs of children in hospital
hospitalization of a child for physical
reasons brings with it separation from pa-
rents, siblings and familiar surroundings,
as well as the probability of subjection
to frightening and painful procedures.
unless steps are taken to prevent or modify
the resultant stress, behavioral
disturbances may arise and may result in per-
manent damage to the developing personality.
.I 494
.W
2906. early childhood separations
every child in this long-term study of child
rearing showed significant reactions to
ordinary separations by about 1 yr. of age.
the similar pattern of response in this
group of children suggests a biologically
determined cause.  the clinging reaction
appeared when the child became mobile and
able to move away from his mother re-
gardless of the frequency or duration of his
separations.  the majority of the mothers
did not understand this natural phenomenon
and regarded the clinging and crying of
the 1-year-old as evidence of spoiled or
regressed behavior.  the pediatrician can
be helpful to a mother by anticipating and
explaining separation responses, by indi-
cating their universality, and by giving
specific recommendations for gradual changes
to modify these reactions.
.I 495
.W
9787. changes in developmental quotient under two conditions of maternal
separation.
developmental scales were
administered to 2 groups of infants during and sub-
sequent to a temporary period of institutionalization.
although both groups experienced maternal separa-
tion, only 1 group was subjected to deprivation, in
that it received very much less stimulation than the
other.  results from a longitudinal testing program
show that the scores of the deprived group during
the period of separation were significantly lower than
those of the nondeprived group, no progressive de-
terioration of scores took place in the course of
institutionalization, immediately following return
home, while the scores of the nondeprived group re-
mained constant, those of the deprived infants jumped
to the level of the other group.  3 theories regarding
the mechanism underlying the association between
deprivation and developmental retardation are exam-
ined and it is suggested that an explanation in moti-
vational terms best fits the results obtained.
.I 496
.W
1808. separation anxiety  a factor in the object relations of
schizophrenic patients.
the thesis is advanced that
special vulnerability to separation anxiety is a crucial
factor in the schizophrenic's difficulty in establishing
and maintaining satisfactory interpersonal relationships.
2 major reasons for this are lack of autonomy and lack
of object constancy.  without a stable autonomous
capacity for self-regulation and adaptation, he is inordi-
nately dependent upon others for help, protection, and
direction.  without object constancy, he is unable to
maintain a stable representation of the needed person in
the latter's absence.  evidence is presented from the
intensive psychotherapy of schizophrenic patients.
many of the vicissitudes of the doctor-patient relation-
ship center about the patient's separation anxiety and
his attempted defenses against it.  these include clinging,
perceptual and cognitive distortions designed to deny
separation, and recourse to substitute objects.  promi-
nent in many of these efforts is the attempt to reverse
passive victimization into active mastery.  the practical
implications of this thesis for the treatment of schiz-
ophrenic patients are discussed.
.I 497
.W
9101. separation experiences and health records in a group of normal adults.
about 25% of 455 ostensibly normal ss
reported a recent "separation experience" as defined
in this study.  the frequency of visits to the dis-
pensary for symptomatic complaints was not signifi-
cantly higher among those who reported separation
than among those who did not.  the data suggest
that an apparent association between relatively high
cornell medical index score and history of separation
experience may be understandable in terms of a cause-
effect relationship between separation experience and illness.
.I 498
.W
11306. separation and attempted suicide.
of 3 groups of psychiatric patients-at-
tempted suicides, those with suicidal urges, and non-
suicides-there were significantly more attempted
suicides among patients with a history of childhood and
antecedent separation than controls.  in childhood the
significant difference was found primarily in the period
from birth to 7 yr.  there was no significant interaction
between childhood and antecendent separation and
suicide attempt or suicide urge.
.I 499
.W
1463. investigations of lens protein and microelectrophoresis of
hydrosoluble protein in senile cataract
the investigations on lens protein and
on agar-microelectrophoresis of hydro-
soluble protein in normal lenses and in those affected with senile cataract re-
vealed the following facts  (1) in opaque
lenses, a diminution of the total protein
and the soluble protein takes place, as
well as an increase in the amount of in-
soluble protein.  the decrease in the
quantity of soluble protein is higher than the
increase of insoluble protein which does
not only point to a transformation of the
soluble protein into the insoluble variety,
but also to the disappearance of a protein
fraction from the lens.  changes in the
quantity of soluble protein are accompanied
by the decrease of protein in slow fractions
of the electropherogram and even by
the disappearance of these fractions and
the increase of the amount of protein in
fractions of medium velocity.  with the
development of cataract and the mature
phase of cataract, all these processes
become more and more distinct.  in this
respect, a strong parallelism exists between
the protein changes and the clinical
picture of senile cataract.  (2) qualitative
and quantitative changes which occur in
the protein of normal lenses with advancing
age show a character similar to those
in senile cataract, however, they are less
pronounced.  in this instance, the de-
crease in the quantity of soluble protein is
likewise closely associated with the
diminution of the protein content in the slow
fractions of the electropherogram.
(3) the changes in the soluble protein content
of the lens and the alterations of
the protein amounts in the slow fractions which
always accompany the former,
play the principal role in the aging process
of the lens and in the development of
senile cataract.  (4) the investigations
seem to indicate that the aging processes,
of lenses as well as the development of
senile cataract are of a similar character,
but of different intensity.  (5) undoubtedly,
the processes of transition from slow
fractions of soluble protein into faster ones
and the transformation of part of the
soluble protein into insoluble protein which is
likely to be associated with these
processes as well as the partial disappearance
of total protein from the lens seem
to play a very important part in the mechanisms
pertaining to the development
of cataract.
.I 500
.W
1949. studies on the soluble proteins of bovine lens.  immuno-
chemical analyses of protein fractions
the lyophilized soluble lens proteins
were dissolved in 0.005 m phosphate buffer
at ph 6.8 and the solution was subjected to
column chromatography on deae (die-
thylamino ethyl) cellulose.  elution was
accomplished by changing the ph and ionic
strength of the eluting buffer.  the components
were fractionated by stepwise elu-
tion.  the lens proteins were separated into
17 fractions by column chromatogra-
phy.  these fractions were compared with
a, b and y crystallines for electrophore-
tic mobility, and the antigenic purity of each
fraction was examined immunochemi-
cally.  the results showed that while the
fractions were not completely pure they
were purer than the a, b and y crystalline
fractions, and that f-1-a, b, c and d
corresponded to y crystalline, while
f-2-a, b, c, d, e and f corresponded to b
crystalline and f-3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and
9 to a crystalline.
.I 501
.W
3107. studies on y-crystallin from calf lens.  ii.  purification and
some properties of the main protein components
four proteins belonging to the y-crystallin group
were purified by chromatography
on sulphoethyl-sephadex and phosphate-cellulose
columns.  the proteins were homo-
geneous in gel and immunoelectrophoresis
experiments and could be crystallized.
their molecular weights, n-terminal amino
acid sequences and antigenic structures
were all similar, but their amino acid
compositions and the sulphydryl groups con-
tained showed certain dissimilarities.  it
is probable that the 4 proteins possess
small differences in their primary structure,
which are not associated with the
antigenic sites and which may have arisen
from mutations during evolution.
.I 502
.W
3105. studies on the subunits of a-crystallin and their recombi-
nation
earlier investigations have shown that, in
the presence of high concentrations of
urea, a-crystallin from bovine lens is split
into a number of subunits with apparent-
ly different electrophoretic mobilities but
similar molecular weights.  the recom-
bination of these subunits after removal of
the urea has been studied by ultracentri-
fugation and immunoprecipitation techniques.
it was found that maximal recombina-
tion was obtained when the ionic strength
during the removal of the urea was high
(>0.2), whereas at low ionic strengths a
molecule with only half the molecular weight
of native a-crystallin and a much lower
sedimentation coefficient was obtained.  a
complete recovery of the structure of
native a-crystallin was never obtained, even
at high ionic strengths, as was evident
from electrophoretic and quantitative preci-
pitin analyses.  the subunits were
fractionated by chromatography on deae-cellu-
lose in the presence of 7 m urea.
the purification was followed by polyacrylamide-
gel electrophoresis.  after removal of
the urea at high ionic strength, 2 of the
fractions obtained showed reactions of
only partial identity with native a-crystallin
in immunodiffusion tests, but all other
fractions showed complete identity.  the
differences in the electrophoretic
mobilities of the fractions in the presence of
urea persisted after removal of the urea.
all fractions had much higher sedimen-
tation coefficients in the absence of urea
than in its presence, although the values
for urea-treated unfractionated a-crystallin
obtained after removal of the urea
were not reached even at high ionic strengths.
the amino acid composition of the
fractions was found to differ.  these
observations suggest that a-crystallin is com-
posed of a number of chemically different,
but related, subunits of approximately
the same size, which are bound together
by nonspecific, noncovalent bonds, pos-
sibly hydrophobic bonds.  moreover,
when isolated, these subunits have the ability
to associate and form molecules of
high molecular weight.
.I 503
.W
3106. fractionation of b-crystallin from calf lens by gel fil-
tration
b-crystallin was isolated from calf lenses
by a combination of gel filtration on
sephadex g-75 and vertical-column zone
electrophoresis.  it was subdivided into
4 fractions by subsequent gel filtration on
dextran gels with low cross-linkage.
each fraction showed only 1 major peak in
the ultracentrifuge, the sedimentation
coefficients of which were 13.6, 9.6, 4.9 and
4.2 s for fractions i-iv, respectively.
however, all 4 fractions contained some
additional minor components, as revealed
by sedimentation and immunoelectrophoretic
analyses.  the fractionation procedure
may be of value as a first step in the isolation
of individual proteins of the b-crystal-
lin group.
.I 504
.W
195. properties of a cold-precipitable protein fraction in the
lens
a soluble protein fraction which precipitates
in aqueous solutions at temperatures
below 10  c has been isolated from the rat
lens.  this fraction appears to be re-
sponsible for the reversible 'cold cataract'
which has been seen to develop when
young mammals are exposed to temperatures
below 10  c.  as the rat ages, the
concentration of this protein fraction
decreases, but the fraction does not com-
pletely disappear, even from the lenses
of 3-year-old rats.  although the molecular
species comprising this fraction appear to
be homogeneous in the ultracentrifuge,
disc electrophoresis and immunodiffusion
have shown that they are a heterogeneous
mixture of a-, b- and y-crystallin subunits.
the ability of the cold-precipitable
protein (ccp) fraction to precipitate in the
cold depends upon its concentration and
the ionic strength and ph of the solvent.  in
solutions of ph 4.0, some aggregation
of the 4 s cpp occurs to form a 17 s component,
which no longer precipitates in
the cold.  the ability of this protein fraction to
precipitate in the cold may depend
on hydrophobic bonding and its influence on the
conformation of the protein.
.I 505
.W
773. the effect of radiation on lenticular epithelial enzymes
in young rabbits
the mitochondrial fraction and the soluble
fraction of the epithelial cells of the lens
from 6-week-old new zealand white male
rabbits, exposed to 800 r of whole-head
x-irradiation, were evaluated for glucose
6-phosphate dehydrogenase, isocitrate
dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase,
glutathione reductase, glyceraldehydephos-
phate dehydrogenase, purine nucleoside
phosphorylase, nadph2 diaphorase, and
nadh2 cytochrome c reductase activities.
increased enzyme activities were noted
in the irradiated lenticular tissues for
purine nucleoside phosphorylase, nadph2
diaphorase and nadh2 cytochrome c
reductase.  decreased activities for glucose
6-phosphate dehydrogenase, malate
dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase and gly-
ceraldehydephosphate dehydrogenase
were observed in the lenticular tissues of ir-
radiated animals.  the activity of isocitrate
dehydrogenase was the same in the ir-
radiated and in the control animals.
.I 506
.W
465. conversion of a-crystallin of bovine lens into insoluble
protein in vitro
a-crystallin can be converted into an insoluble
form by treatment with alloxan and
to a very small extent with iodoacetate.
other reagents such as hcl, naoh, reduced
glutathione, hydrogen peroxide,
mercaptoethanol, were not able to convert a-crys-
tallin into an insoluble form.  the
alloxan treated insoluble a-crystallin could be made
soluble by treatment with 7 m urea.
the product thus made soluble had the same
electrophoretic mobility as a-crystallin,
but showed cross reaction with a-crystallin
in ouchterlony plate and did not have
proteolytic activity.  alloxan was effective in
producing cataract of rabbit lens when very
small amounts were injected into the
aqueous.
.I 507
.W
1972. structural studies of a-crystallin
a-crystallin has been isolated from the cortex
of ox lens by isoelectric precipitation
followed by chromatography on deae-cellulose.
the amino acid composition is in
agreement with that reported for a-crystallin
prepared by a different method.  there
is one thiol group/20,000g. of protein
(20,000 is the order of magnitude of the sub-
unit molecular weight), and disulphide
bonds are absent.  the thiol group has been
alkylated with radioactive iodoacetate
in the presence of urea.  partial acid hydroly-
sis of the alkylated protein gives,
according to the conditions, mainly 3 radioactive
peptides or nearly exclusively one
radioactive dipeptide.  the dipeptide is n-seryl-
(s-carboxymethyl) cysteine, ser-cmcys.
the 2 other peptides are probably the tri-
peptides related to ser-cmcys.  the
simplest interpretation of these results is that
the sequence around the cysteine residue
is a common structural feature of the sub-
units of a-crystallin.
.I 508
.W
1751. on the subunits of a-crystallin
a-crystallin was isolated from total
water-soluble lens extract by preparative zone
electrophoresis on starch or pevikon
c870 blocks and purified by density gradient
centrifugation and sephadex chromatography.
these preparations were treated with
urea or sodium dodecyl sulphate and
submitted to electrophoresis on polyacrylamide
gels containing either urea or sodium
dodecyl sulphate.  whereas in 7 m urea a large
number of zones was detected, only
three bands were observed in 1% sodium dodecyl
sulphate.  on the other hand, the
sedimentation coefficient had the same value in both
media.  the authors re-investigated the
n-terminal amino acid content in the starch block
preparations and compared the result
with that obtained from the preparations isolated
according to their new procedure.  the
concentration of dinitrophenyl-glutamic acid
was lower in the purified samples.
urea-treated samples had the same concentration
of n-terminal glutamic acid whereas
the concentration of the 'trace' end-groups did
not change.  sedimentation-diffusion
equilibrium in the analytical ultracentrifuge
revealed a slight heterogeneity in the
purified samples.  electron micrographs of
electrophoretic and of further purified
samples were very similar.  at neutral or
slightly alkaline ph they showed almost
uniform spherical aggregates in which a
substructure was observed.  at acid ph,
coiled filaments rather than small globules
could be demonstrated.
.I 509
.W
1752. separation of the soluble proteins of bovine lenses on
polyacrylamide gels
the soluble proteins of bovine lenses were
separated by gel filtration on polyacryl-
amide gels.  the presence of ethylenediaminetetra-
acetate in the buffer was found
to be essential for achieving a good separation
of the lens homogenate into four
fractions - a, b, c and d.  ultracentrifugal,
electrophoretic and immunochemical
analyses were used to compare these fractions
with the soluble crystallin fractions
of the lens.  fraction a was compared
with a-crystallin, fractions b and c with
b-crystallin and fraction d with y-crystallin.
the distribution of these four protein
fractions in the nuclear and cortical parts
of calf and cow lenses was determined.
the oxidation-sensitive protein fraction of
the calf lenses was separated from
fraction b on an se-sephadex column.
.I 510
.W
1745. the deaggregation of bovine lens a-crystallin
sedimentation equilibrium studies of lens
a-crystallin at neutral ph indicate that
this material is composed of a number
of different sized species.  a study of the
effect of alkali upon a-crystallin indicates
a progressive deaggregation of the ma-
terial with increasing ph.  sedimentation
equilibrium studies were performed at ph
12.8 as well as in guanidine hydrochloride,
7 m urea, and with succinylated material.
under all of these conditions a molecular
heterogeneity was observed.  the data
indicate that independent species coexisted
under most dissociating conditions.  the
weight average molecular weights of the
succinylated, and of the alkali-, urea-,
and guanidine hydrochloride-treated
material were found to have an integral relation-
ship of 8 4 2 1, respectively.  since a
constant ratio of m2 mw was found, it was
concluded that the same spread of
distribution of molecular species occurred for
each of the deaggregating conditions.
the results in guanidine hydrochloride could
not be evaluated in this manner because
of a small concentration dependence.  these
conclusions imply that not only the
weight average molecular weight in 7 m urea
but the actual molecular weight of
each individual species in urea was one-half of
the value to be found in alkali and
one-quarter that of the succinylated material.
.I 511
.W
1747. the problem of albuminoid
albuminoid is the main constituent of the
insoluble fraction of the lens proteins.
albuminoid from the cortex of ox lens has
been fractionated on deae-cellulose in
7 m urea; peptide maps of the fractions
are very similar to those from the corre-
sponding fractions from a-crystallin.
albuminoid can be regarded as an insoluble
a-crystallin.  an undiluted ground lens
is clear but becomes turbid on dilution.  if
albuminoid is present in the normal lens,
it does not cause turbidity even when the
cellular structure is disrupted.  it is
perhaps more likely that the albuminoid is
formed on dilution of the lens mush.
the high concentration of proteins in the lens,
especially in the nucleus, entails a high
degree of order, which will be destroyed
on dilution  this phenomenon may well be
connected with the precipitation of the
albuminoid.
.I 512
.W
787. further autoradiographic studies of the lens epithelium.
normal and x-irradiated rat eyes
cell proliferation and migration in
the lens epithelium of normal and x-irradiated
rat eyes were studied by means of
autoradiography after labelling with tritiated
thymidine.  cells of the normal lens
epithelium require 16 hr. to pass from the
beginning of the synthesizing period
to the completion of mitosis.  this interval is
partitioned as follows  s period,
approximately 10 hr.; g2, slightly less than 5 hr;
and mitosis, 72 min.  following division,
labelled daughter cells migrate from the
germinative zone to the postequatorial
rows, and by 2 weeks after tracer injection
many radioactive nuclei are found in the
lens bow.  epithelial cells irradiated while
in the dna synthesis phase undergo
degeneration beginning approximately 8 hr.
after exposure.  the onset of cell death
corresponds to the time at which these cells
would normally be preparing for mitosis
indicating that they die in abortive divisions.
a small percentage of the originally
labelled cells survived until 3 days after irradi-
ation, but by 2 weeks this number fell
almost to zero.  the loss of radioactive cells
occurred most rapidly in the equatorial zone.
.I 513
.W
2627. chicken lens development  epithelial cell production and
migration
in the earliest stages of chicken lens
development, cell division occurred over the
entire lens.  cell division first stopped
in the posterior side of the lens vesicle, as
the cells differentiated into primary lens
fibers.  after the annular pad developed,
cell division occurred, for the most part,
in the anterior surface epithelial cells.
shortly after hatching and thereafter, a
germinative zone, consisting of a narrow
band of epithelial cells adjacent to the
annular pad developed.  the cells from the
germinative zone migrated slowly and
differentiated first into annular pad cells and
then into lens cortex fibers over an
estimated 2-year period.  this slow migration
of cells in the lens is discussed in
relation to the failure of the adult chicken to de-
velop radiation cataracts.
.I 514
.W
1494. selenium content of fish flour in relation to kwashiorkor and dental
caries
the fact that fish flour was shown to be a rich source of
dietary selenium (169 p.p.m. may have important implications (i.e. deleterious
effect on teeth) in the treatment and prevention of protein malnutrition.  it
indicates that some disease syndromes in man may be a manifestation of selenium
deficiency.  it is recommended that the role played by selenium in protein
malnutrition should be given serious consideration by research workers.
.I 515
.W
2192. selenium content of fresh eggs
during a study of effects of traces of se on dental caries the authors
determined this element in eggs.  whole egg contains appreciable
amounts of se; this is found chiefly in the yolk (mean value 0.324
0.039 p.p.m.) with only 0.051 0.029 p.p.m. in the white.
.I 516
.W
1541. selenium content of human milk  possible effect on dental caries
selenium appears to be a factor capable of increasing susceptibility to
dental caries in children and rats.  in an area considered to be
nonseleniferous, milk collected from 15 mothers (17-44 yr. old) of low
socio-economic class had a mean selenium content of 0.021 p.p.m.
(standard error  0.003).
.I 517
.W
1577. mode of action of selenium in relation to biological activity of
tocopherols
dietary selenium at levels below 1 ppm has a partially beneficial effect
upon nutritional muscular dystrophy but is ineffective or detrimental
at higher levels.  the role of selenium in improving the effectiveness of
vitamin e is due at least in part to the fact that dietary selenium increases
the retention of the a-tocopherols, especially d-a-tocopherol.  this has been
shown by chemical determination of plasma tocopherols and also by tracing the
activities of tritiated tocopherols and selenium75 in serum and in various
fractions of serum proteins in chicks receiving these nutrients alone and in
combination.  se75 and h3-a-tocopherol activities followed each other very
closely in the serum proteins.  these studies indicated that vitamin e may be
carried by a selenolipoprotein fraction associated with serum y-globulin.  thus,
one biological role of selenium appears to lie in a selenium-containing
compound which acts as a carrier of vitamin e and which may function in
absorption, retention, prevention of destruction, and perhaps transfer across
cell membranes of d-a-tocopherol, thereby enhancing its biological activity
in the blood and perhaps in cells throughout the body.
.I 518
.W
3123. effect of sodium selenate on acute poisoning with thallium
experiments were performed on wistar rats weighing 150-200 g.  thallium was ad-
ministered s.c. in doses of 20 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg.  sodium selenate was
given per os in doses of 10 mg/kg 2 hr after poisoning and 5 mg/kg daily
for the next 2 days.  results indicate that sodium selenate protects the
animals from death.  it binds the thallium ions and increases their deposition
in organs.  comparison of the level of thallium in organs of treated rats
shows that selenate increases in liver by 290.6%, in kidneys by 326.8% and in
bones by 210.0%.  no influence of selenate on excretion of thallium in the
urine was found, but fecal excretion of thallium increased by an average of
45% of the treated animals.
.I 519
.W
2281. inhibition of active transport of sugars through rat intestine in vitro.
ii. action of mepacrine, atractyloside and selenite
it is shown that mepacrine, atractyloside and selenite, which had been regarded
as inhibitors of intestinal absorption of glucose, are inhibitors of active
transport of sugars in sacs of everted jejunum of rat (wilson and wiseman's
method).  mepacrine 5 x 10 -3 m and 10 -2 m inhibit, by 85% and 100%
respectively, the active transport of galactose.  with atractyloside 10 -5 m
and 10 -3 m, the inhibitions were 77% and 100% and, with selenite 10 -4 m and
10 -3 m, about 70%.  in general the inhibitors are effective within orders of
magnitude which are similar in vivo and in vitro.  atractyloside is rather more
effective in vitro than in vivo, and mepacrine rather less.  it is easier to
achieve total inhibitions of the active transport of sugars in vitro than of
intestinal absorption from isotonic solutions in vivo.
.I 520
.W
2284. analogs parasympathetic neuroeffectors.  ii. comparative pharmacological
studies of acetylcholine, its thio and seleno analogs, and their hydrolysis
products
acetylthiocholine and acetylselenocholine exert acetylcholine-like effects on
the guinea-pig ileum and frog rectus abdominis preparations.  with the
latter preparation, responses to acetylthiocholine and acetylselenocholine,
in contrast to that to acetylcholine, are not enhanced by the addition of an
anticholinesterase.  this is attributable to the relatively high activity of
the hydrolysis products, cholinethiol and cholineselenol; acetylthiocholine
and acetyselenocholine undergo enzymatic hydrolysis at approximately the same
rate as does acetylcholine.  the hydrolysis products of acetylthiocholine and
acetylselenocholine, which have effects on the guinea-pig ileum comparable
to those of the parent esters, are readily oxidized in air to the relatively
inactive choline disulfide and choline diselenide, respectively.  these
observations are helpful in explaining many of the apparently contradictory
statements in the literature regarding the actions of acetylthiocholine.
.I 521
.W
3604. cytotoxicity of organophosphorus compounds.  comparative activities of
trimethyl derivatives of thiophosphoric and selenophosphoric acids on vegetable
(pisum root) and human (hela) cells
of the 4 compounds studied, the seleno compounds were more cytotoxic for
hela cells than their thio analogues, whereas the activities on pisum
root cells were equal.  the parent phosphoric acid derivatives have a
wider activity range on hela cells than the seleno and thio derivatives.
further studies are in progress.
.I 522
.W
3640. poisoning with sodium selenite
chronic poisoning with na selenite (in the drinking water) causes hepatic
cirrhosis, usually of atrophic type, in rats.  in rabbits there seems to be a
definite diabetogenic action, while attempts to demonstrate such action in
dogs have so far given inconclusive results.  the difference between these
2 species is perhaps due to the technique used (different spacing of injections
for practical reasons).  the action of selenite on the pancreas is discussed
and it is pointed out that se can replace s in sh groups, thus rendering the
latter ineffective.  both in effects on the liver and in those on the pancreas
se seems to resemble alloxan.
.I 523
.W
2552. the tissue distribution of se75 -selenouracil and se75 -selenourea
when selenium analogues of thiouracil and thiourea labelled with se75 were
injected into rabbits, high radioactivity appeared in lung, liver and kidney.
the animal's lungs could be visualised by photoscanning, but quality was
poor, and neither compound is recommended for trial for lung or
adrenal scanning in man.
.I 524
.W
1142. sodium selenate toxicosis  pathology and pathogenesis of sodium
selenate toxicosis in sheep
the pathogenesis of selenium toxicosis was studied in 30 ewes fed subtoxic to
toxic levels of sodium selenate for 1 to 5 mth.  seventeen of the 30 died of
selenium toxicosis.  the most severe and consistent pathologic changes were
found in the myocardium and lungs.  myocardial alterations were focal to
diffuse degeneration, necrosis and early replacement fibrosis.  pulmonary
changes, consisting of edema and interstitial hemorrhages, were typical of the
degenerative processes which characterize passive congestion of the lungs
resulting from left ventricular insufficiency.  atrophy of lymphoid centers
in the spleen and lymph nodes was common.  degenerative changes were
occasionally found in liver, kidneys, and gastrointestinal tract.
.I 525
.W
1143. sodium selenate toxicosis  the distribution of selenium within the body
after prolonged feeding of toxic quantities of sodium selenate to sheep
the distribution of selenium in the body tissues of adult sheep fed subtoxic to
toxic quantities of sodium selenate daily for 1 to 5 mth. varied with the
tissue
type and with the level and duration of selenium consumption.  selenium
concentration was highest in the liver, followed by (in descending order)
the kidneys, lungs, spleen, myocardium, skeletal muscles, and brain.
.I 526
.W
1172. studies on selenium toxicity and chondroitin sulfate and taurine
biosynthesis in the chick embryo
fourteen-day-old chick embryos were used in in vivo experiments.  a toxic
selenite treatment did not cause a reduction in the extent of sulfate-s
incorporation into chondroitin sulfate or into taurine or a reduction in the
observed tissue levels of these metabolites.  rather, the taurine level was
significantly greater with the embryos which received selenium.  the extent of
the incorporation of selenite-se into the metabolites was low or not
significant.
.I 527
.W
843. reactions of seleno- and sulfoamino acids with hydroperoxides
reactions of methionine, cystine and their selenium analogues with
hydrogen peroxide and organic peroxides have been studied.  methionine reacts
most rapidly with hydrogen peroxide but selenocystine causes the most
decomposition; both react much more slowly with organic peroxides.  the results
suggest that selenocystine may act as a biological antioxidant.
.I 528
.W
2127. selenium toxicity in domestic animals
the article, with an extensive bibliography, is a compendium of available
information on selenium toxicity in domestic animals.  literature reveals
evidence of organically bound se being more biologically active, when given
orally to domestic animals, than inorganic se salts.  there is also variation
in toxicity of organic se analogs.  when exposed to ruminal digestion, there is
considerable reduction of se salts to the relatively biologically inactive
elemental se; which may result in fecal excretion of se, as such, to as much
as 40% of a single oral dose.  fluorine, molybdenum, chromium, vanadium,
cadmium, zinc, cobalt, nickel and uranium increase se toxicity.  arsenic and
tungsten give some protection against it.  bromobenzene, benzene, and
napthalene
mobilize tissue se and stimulate its excretion.  since se preparations designed
for topical application in treatment of skin disease have been available for
use
in both man and dogs, the literature has reported cases of poisoning from
misuse
of such preparations.  selenium, properly used, can be a valuable therapeutic
agent, though certain salts of se must be regarded as potentially toxic.
however, there is considerable latitude between therapeutic and/or nutritional
and toxic doses of these salts.
.I 529
.W
1845. further studies on specific transplantation antigens in rous sarcoma of
mice
mice allografted with different sarcomas, induced by the schmidt-ruppin variant
of rous sarcoma virus (rsv-sr), showed a resistance against subsequent
isografting of 9 different rous sarcomas.  transplantation
resistance could also be induced by
rous mouse tumor cells x-irradiated with 8000 r
or with cell-free tumor extracts,
containing no demonstrable virus.  no
transplantation resistance could be demon-
strated after allograft pretreatment with
various polyoma tumors or non-viral tu-
mors.  allograft pretreatment with rous
tumors induced no demonstrable resistance
against isografting of polyoma tumors.
inoculation of rsv-sr or rous chicken sar-
coma suspension into adult mice gave
no clear cut resistance against isograft-
ing of mouse sarcomas.  neither after
allografting of rous tumors nor after virus
or chicken sarcoma inoculation into adult
mice could virus-neutralizing activity be
demonstrated in the sera.  the results
demonstrate the presence of common, speci-
fic transplantation antigen(s) in different
rous sarcomas in mice and speak against
an identity between the transplantation
antigen(s) and viral antigen(s).
.I 530
.W
1846. anaphylactic tests in model tumour antigen investigations
the efficacy of anaphylactic tests in detecting
'tumor' antigen in serum was investi-
gated.  a simple model of a tumor-antigen
study was carried out using rat tissue
and rat serum, with bovine y-globulin (byg)
acting as a mock cancer antigen.  it
was found that if byg (absolute dosage 100
ug.) had formed 1/6 of the antigen mix-
ture used for sensitization it was readily
detected when present in a concentration
of 10-3 in the serum used for challenge,
but not invariably detected in a concentra-
tion of 10-4.  if byg (absolute dosage 50
ug.) had formed approximately 1/50 of the
sensitizing mixture, it was infrequently
detected even when present in the challeng-
ing serum in a concentration of 10-2.  it
is concluded that anaphylactic tests used in
this context do not have a very high
sensitivity or discriminatory capacity.
.I 531
.W
1066. the effect of lymphoid cells from
the lymph of specifically immunised sheep
on the growth of primary sarcomata in
rats
the growth of primary fibrosarcomata induced in
rats with 3:4-benzpyrene was retarded by the injection
of lymphocytes obtained from the efferent duct of a
lymph node in a sheep immunized with a piece of the
tumor to be treated.  the action of the heterologous lym-
phocytes was specific to the particular tumor used for
immunization suggesting that reaction against tumor-
specific antigens is involved.  the cells responsible are
believed to be medium-sized pyroninophilic lymphocytes
which may stimulate the immune system of the host to
react against the autochthonous tumor.
.I 532
.W
2570. treatment of canine neoplasms with autogenous vaccinial preparations
inbred mice with transplantable sarcoma
and carcinoma were treated with im-
plants of their tumours which had been
grown in strains of mice normally resistant
to the tumours.  complete regression of
transplantable tumours was noted in 22%
of the treated mice and 78% had life
spans double that of untreated controls.
one dog with spontaneous scirrhous
mammary carcinoma and another with
lymphosarcoma were treated with implants
of their own tumours after growth in
cortisone-treated mice.  regression of the
spontaneous neoplasms followed in both
cases.  it is suggested that growth of a
neoplasm in a foreign host alters the mole-
cular structure of the neoplasm, making it
antigenic when returned to the original
host.  antigens produced are also effective
against the original lesions.
.I 533
.W
744. studies on protein and nucleic acid metabolism in virus-in-
fected mammalian cells.  the formation of a virus-specific
antigen in krebs ii ascites-tumour cells infected with ence-
phalomyocarditis virus
krebs ii mouse ascites-tumor cells infected
with encephalomyocarditis virus were
found to contain, in addition to mature virus,
a virus-specific protein antigen.  an
assay, based on the ability of this antigen
to block the neutralization of purified virus
by its specific antiserum, was developed.
this antigen was present both in the cul-
ture fluid 17 hr. after the infection of cells
with virus and intracellularly, where its
titer increased at a time when viral capsid
protein was being synthesized.  within the
cell, it was mostly localized in the soluble
cell sap.  in contrast with virus, the anti-
gen did not agglutinate sheep erythrocytes,
and its immunological properties were
destroyed by digestion with trypsin.  ribonucleic
acid was not detected in concentrat-
ed preparations of the antigen, nor was the titer
of antigen affected by ribonuclease.
the antigen had a sedimentation coefficient (20 )
of approx. 14s, and its diffusion co-
efficient, determined by the method of allison and
humphrey (1960), was 3.2 x 10-7
sq. cm. sec.-1.  the particle weight of the antigen
was hence 420,000   40,000.  the
capsid protein from purified encephalomyocarditis
virus could be degraded by treat-
ment with ethanolamine into a protein of sedimentation
coefficient (20 ) of approx. 4s.
the 14s antigen, when similarly treated, yielded
a protein of similar size.  however,
no such smaller antigen was detected in virus-infected
cells.  it is concluded that the
non-hemagglutinating antigen represents a polymeric
form of the basic viral capsid-
protein molecule and that it is synthesized in the
cytoplasm of infected cells.  it may
be either an intermediate or a by-product in the
process of viral capsid-protein syn-
thesis.
.I 534
.W
1368. immunologic competence and induction of neoplasms by
polyoma virus
thymectomy at 3 days of age in several
inbred strains of mice and in an f1 hybrid
resulted in a strikingly increased frequency
of neoplasms following infection with
polyoma virus.  age susceptibility was extended
to at least 30 days of age in highly
resistant c57bl mice.  the usual stigmata
associated with thymectomy at birth were
not found in the 3-day thymectomized mice.
nonetheless the methods used to restore
immunologically deficient thymectomized
neonates were also effective in restoring
the capacity to resist polyoma virus tumor
induction: adult syngeneic spleen cells,
thymus tissue in millipore diffusion chambers
and syngeneic thymus grafts.  growth
curves of polyoma virus in kidney, salivary
glands and liver were quite similar in
thymectomized and intact litter mates.
hemagglutination-inhibition antibodies deter-
mined periodically up to 30 days after
infection were also similar in both groups.
these results are discussed in terms of
a concept involving virus-specific 'tumor'
antigens and the immunologic status of the animal.
.I 535
.W
1848. antigen analysis of sera from patients with malignant
tumors by immunodiffusion methods
immunoelectrophoresis and ouchterlony's
method were used for the antigen analy-
sis of sera from 320 cancer patients; 250
normal or non-tumorous cases served as
controls.  immunoelectrophoresis showed
abnormal precipitin lines which could not
be demonstrated in normal sera.  most of
the abnormal antigens were demonstrated
in the a2- and b1-globulin fractions.  the
distribution of these antigens differed in
individual cases and was not related to the
histopathological classification and site
of the tumors.  however, these antigens
increased in parallel with growth of the
tumors and disappeared or markedly
decreased after surgical removal of the tumor
tissue.  almost all sera of patients with
myeloma, leukemia, and malignant lymph-
oma formed one characteristic line in
the b2-globulin region and they could be dif-
ferentiated from the patterns in cases of carcinoma.
.I 536
.W
2354. isoantigenic properties of tumors transgressing histocompatibility
barriers of the h-2 system
sublines capable of transgressing h-2 histocompatibility
barriers have been derived
from strictly strain-specific tumors by 1) passage
through newborn hosts of a
foreign genotype; 2) passage through adult h-2
incompatible recipients pretreated
with isoantisera directed against the tumor cells.
the nonspecific character induced
by these procedures was usually expressed in a
number of different h-2 incompa-
tible recipients.  the changes responsible for
the conversion to nonspecific growth
appeared to proceed in a stepwise fashion.
expression of the nonspecific character
required exposure to the foreign host environment
for more than 30 days.  at this
stage and during the subsequent 3 transfer
generations, reversion to strain-specific
growth occurred on back-transfer to the
strain of origin; after 4 passages in the
foreign hosts the nonspecific character was
permanently established, however, and
could not be reverted by prolonged passage
in the original host genotype.  the
growth rate of strain-specific tumors and
their nonspecific sublines was compared
in the strain of origin.  no difference was
found with one tumor, while the strain-
specific line grew better than the nonspecific
sublines with another.  this difference
was detected in the homozygous strain of
origin and in different semi-isologous f1
hybrids.  all lines grew better in the
homozygous strain than in the f1 hybrids,
however.  a comparison was made
between the concentration of h-2 isoantigenic
surface determinants in strain-specific
tumors and their nonspecific sublines by a
quantitative absorption technique in
vitro.  all nonspecific sublines had a lower
concentration of h-2 isoantigens than
the strain-specific tumors.  this suggests
that nonspecific tumors develop as a result
of immunoselection of variants resistant
to the homograft reaction and are characterized
by a lowered concentration of
h-2 antigens.
.I 537
.W
2371. participation of 7s and 19s antibodies in enhancement and
resistance to methylcholanthrene-induced tumours
serum factors responsible for enhancement
and resistance to methylcholanthrene-
induced tumors in a syngeneic system in mice
were studied.  they were found to be
part of the serum immunoglobulin system.
the active components of specific anti-
tumor serum were always contained in the
7s (y-2) and 19s (y-1m) fraction, while
no activity was detected in the 4s fraction.
in sera which in the given dose enhanced
growth of the tumor graft, enhancing activity
was present in both the 7s and 19s
fraction of the serum and was higher in the
former.  in sera which in the given dose
influenced the interaction of the organism with
the tumor by producing resistance
to the tumor graft, both fractions were again
active, the activity of fraction 19s
being higher than that of fraction 7s.
.I 538
.W
2372. the effect of immunity against sex-antigen on a tumour
graft containing sex-antigen
the tumor bp 1 induced by benzpyrene in c57bl
male mice contains sex-antigen.
sex-antigen is not lost during growth of tumor
against immunity directed against
this antigen.  the tumor, however, becomes
more resistant to immunity and the
content of sex-antigen is decreased.
.I 539
.W
2373. factors influencing the induction of enhancement and re-
sistance to methylcholanthrene-induced tumours in a syn-
geneic system
active immunological enhancement of the
growth of methylcholanthrene-induced tu-
mors was demonstrated in a syngeneic
system in mice.  enhancement was detected
3-5 wk. after preimmunization with
irradiated tumor suspension and was succeeded
after the 6th wk. by the development of
resistance to the tumor.  analysis by means
of adoptive and passive transfer showed
these to be true immunological phenomena.
enhancement and resistance were transferred
by serum and by the lymph node cells
of preimmunized mice.  threshold doses of
tumor cells were found to be the most
satisfactory for the detection of resistance
and enhancement in this system.
.I 540
.W
5512. antigenic properties of human tumours
preliminary studies on the antigenic
properties of human tumours have been
carried out using heterologous antisera,
prepared in rabbits, against a number of
different cancerous and normal tissues.
after repeated absorptions, antisera
were obtained which reacted only with
tissue antigens.  some antisera, after ab-
sorption with normal tissues, reacted only
with tumours.  seventy-two tumour and
31 normal tissue extracts were studied
by means of the ouchterlony agar gel
double diffusion technique.  the results
showed the presence of an antigen or
antigens in some human malignant tumours
which were not detectable in normal
tissues, in foetal tissues, or in hela cells.
in addition, there was some loss of
normal tissue antigens from tumours.
attempts are being made to isolate and
characterize these tumour and normal
tissue antigens.
.I 541
.W
5514. the incorporation of sv40 genetic material into adenovirus 7 as
measured by intranuclear synthesis of sv40 tumor antigen
the l.l. strain of adenovirus 7, free of
detectable infectious sv40 virus, induced
sv40 tumour antigen, demonstrable by
fluorescent antibody staining, in green mon-
key kidney, rabbit kidney, hamster embryo
and human embryo kidney cell cultures.
in green monkey and human cell cultures
there was a cytopathic effect and more
cells contained the sv40 tumour antigen
than in the other types of culture.
adenovirus 7 viral antiserum neutralized
the sv40 tumour antigen inducing
ability of the l.l. strain virus but anti-sv40
monkey serum and serum from sv40
tumour bearing hamsters did not.  an
adenovirus 7 preparation propagated
exclusively in human tissue did not induce
the sv40 tumour antigen.  the sv40
tumour antigen was entirely localised within
the cell nuclei and appeared to be
transmitted to daughter cells during mitosis.
.I 542
.W
264. fluorescent antibodies to human cancer-specific dna and
nuclear proteins
specific antigens have been demonstrated
in certain cancers.  in this study they were
obtained from an adenocarcinoma of the
colon and an ewing's sarcoma.  homogenates
were prepared and male rabbits were
immunized.  the animals were bled to death
10 days after the last injection.  testing
included fluorescent antibody methods and
agar-gel horizontal double-diffusion precipitin
test.  the pattern of reaction of these
antibodies against various cancers seems to
be dependent upon the source of the
cancerous dna-bound proteins and the salt
concentration used in their isolation.
human cancer-specific cross nuclear antigens
seem to be cross reacting rather
than identical in structure.  the cancer-specific
antibodies could be removed only
with absorption of the immune globulins with
cancerous tissues.  salt-soluble human
dna-bound proteins from an adenocarcinoma
of the colon and an ewing's sarcoma
induced the formation of cancer specific
antibodies which showed positive fta re-
actions (to a maximum titer of 1/128) against
95% of the cancerous tissues studied.
these cancer-specific antibodies gave
similar fta reactions with cell nuclei of
normal appearing liver parenchyma
adjacent to metastatic carcinoma of colon, nor-
mal appearing colon near to metastatic
carcinoma of the colon, normal appearing
colon near to carcinoma of the colon,
and a long-standing case of chronic ulcerative
colitis.  evidence is shown that this finding
possibly may represent a serological
detection of an early or latent cancerous
change in morphologically normal cells.
these cancer-specific antigens have been
identified as rounded, intranuclear dna-
bodies and nuclear proteins which can be
specifically destroyed by dnase trypsin.
.I 543
.W
266. immunology of the cancer cell: tumour-specific antigens
after a broad historical survey of immunological
studies of cancer, a review is given
of the evidence showing that antigens present in
normal cells are missing from the
malignant cells that arise from the same tissue.
this evidence is considered in con-
junction with the deletion hypothesis of carcinogenesis,
and the author emphasizes,
that in his view, the key event in carcinogenesis
is enzymatic deletion.  antigenic
gain and intensification in the course of spontaneous,
chemical, and viral carcino-
genesis is reviewed, together with experiments
demonstrating the existence of
tumour-specific antigens.  the question is then
posed: if tumours have specific anti-
gens, why is evidence for their rejection so scanty?
the occasional spontaneous re-
gression points to host resistance but its rarity
suggests that tolerance generally
develops.  consideration is given to the
application of immunological methods to
therapy and although current achievement
in this field is limited, new immunological
stratagems might yet transform the picture.
finally a plea is made for the integra-
tion of the disciplines of immunology and
cellular differentiation.  the prospect is
raised that through a synthetic and holistic
approach we might discover the suscepti-
bility of the cancer cell to re-differentiation
and re-recognition.
.I 544
.W
effets de la carence potassique
chez le rat sur le squelette,
le cholesterol plasmatique
l'histologie des surrenales
r. habib, j. lefebvre et p. royer
potassium deficiency in the male rat at the time of weaning,
provokes an increase in the weight of the suprarenals, an
atrophy of the glomerular zone and a lipoid hypertrophy of
the fasciculae.
it causes a rise in the level of the blood cholesterol.  it
reduces the phosphate level in the blood and increases the
phosphate in the urine.
the blood calcium level is not altered but a hypocalciuria is
noted.
it leads to a severe osteopathy which has been investigated
by radiography, microradiography and histological and bio-
chemical study of the skeleton.  the following are the charac-
teristics : arrest of osseous growth, delay of maturation, arrest
of chondrogenesis, formation of dense metaphyseal lines or
lines of arrest, osteoporosis.
these facts are discussed and compared to the analogous
changes found in the syndrome of chronic idiopathic hypo-
kalaemia with hyperkaluria in the infant.
.I 545
.W
vergleichende renale phosphatelearance-untersuchungen
beim hyperparathyreoidismus und beim sog.  phosphatdiabetes
the analysis of the function of the kidneys give a contribution to
the pathophysiology of two different diseases of general osteopathies
whose pathogenesis or etiology are still not clear in some points.  the
phosphate clearance pre- and postoperative in one patient with hyper-
parathyroidism showed that after the removal of the adenoma of the
parathyroid the renal reabsorption of phosphate improved only tempo-
rary as a secondary form of hyperparathyroidism was already present.
in a patient with a "phosphatdiabetes" the clearance examination showed
that under a high dosage of vitamin d the reabsorption of phosphate did
not increase.  based on these results we have not continued therapy
with vitamin d which is certainly not indifferent.  comparative renal
clearance examinations were carried out in 10 patients which did not
show any disturbances of calcium/phosphate-metabolism.
.I 546
.W
the unreliability of the titan yellow method
for the determination of magnesium
in patients receiving intravenous
calcium gluconate
gluconate was found to interfere with the determination of magnesium by the
titan yellow method.  with this method, false low results were found in the
serum and urine of patients receiving intravenous calcium gluconate.  the
interference can be prevented by ashing of the specimen.
.I 547
.W
absorption and excretion of toxogonin, an alkyl-phosphate antidote,
after intramuscular injection in man
tolerance, absorption and urinary excretion stu-
dies of toxogonin (bis-(4-hydroxyiminomethyl-
pyridine-1-methyl) ether dichloride), a specific anti-
dote in poisoning by esterase-blocking organic
phosphates, were made on 11 men by intramuscular
injection of 250 mg. (ca. 3 mg./kg.) of the drug,
given by self-injection ampoules.  injections made
with the automatic ampoule autule caused no local
irritation.  certain facial symptoms reported can for
the time being be regarded as resorptive side-effects
of toxogonin.  maximum blood levels of 6 ug./ml.
were recorded within 20 minutes.  even after four
hours the level was still 1-2 ug./ml., a concentra-
tion amply sufficient to ensure reactivation of blood
esterases.  of the injected dose, 52% was excreted
in the urine after two hours, 87% after eight hours.
toxogonin appears to pass through the body un-
changed.
.I 548
.W
the study of osteoporosis
and osteomalacia
radiological evidence strongly suggests that
osteoporosis (with the possible exception of acute
immobilization osteoporosis) may be an irrever-
sible condition.  the changes therefore to be
expected in calcium balance when an osteoporotic
is treated are small compared with those often
seen in osteomalacia.  methods of obtaining more
accurate calcium balances are needed to show
these small changes, especially when a high
calcium intake is used.  the method of continuous
marking of stools with chromium sesquioxide
seems to provide just such a method.  using this
method, it has so far proved impossible to obtain
prolonged large positive calcium balances in
osteoporosis on either high calcium intake,
anabolic hormones, or sodium fluoride.
two alternative therapies to vitamin d have
been explored for use in vitamin d-resistant
osteomalacia.  atp has been found to be inneffective.
intravenous phosphate alone has been ineffective
in producing positive calcium balances, but is
effective as a complement to vitamin d under
certain conditions.
.I 549
.W
the aetiology and treatment of
urinary calculus
investigations in this laboratory have been
based on the hypothesis that calculus formation is
primarily a process of crystallization from super-
saturated solutions rather than one of adsorption
on a specific protein matrix, as has been postulated
by boyce and his colleagues (boyce and king,
1963).  that crystallization is the primary factor
is strongly suggested by the recent studies of
vermeulen, lyon and gill (1964).  these authors
produced artificial concretions which closely
resembled urinary calculi by immersing a rotating
wire loop in normal urine for several days and
slowly adding the appropriate stone-forming
elements.
if the above hypothesis is correct then the
factors of primary interest in urinary stone
formation are those responsible for supersaturation,
nucleation and crystal poisoning.  much remains
to be learnt about these various factors, their
inter-relationships, and their relative importance.
the significance of the urinary colloids (proteins,
muco-proteins and polysaccharides) in calculus
formation is still not clear but it is probable that
they play an important secondary role in binding
crystalline precipitates to form a non-friable
calculus.  since time is an important factor in
crystal growth such non-specific binding by
proteins would increase the chances of stone
growth and retention within the upper urinary
tract.
.I 550
.W
control of idiopathic hypercalciuria
the paper discusses the causes of hypercalciuria and describes
15 cases of different origins all of which presented similarly
with renal stones.  the diagnosis of idiopathic hypercalciuria
was made by exclusion.  the effects of dietary restriction of
calcium, sodium bicarbonate, cortisone, sodium phosphate,
sodium phytate, and cellulose phosphate were demonstrated by
calcium and phosphorus balance techniques.  all were shown
to have some urinary-calcium-lowering effect.  finally, a
chlorothiazide derivative--namely, bendrofluazide--was also
demonstrated to have a hypocalciuric effect, and the mode of
action is discussed.
.I 551
.W
effects of parathyroid hormone and other proteins in vitro
on mitochondrial metabolism
it is apparent that in addition to parathyroid hormone, several
non-hormonal basic proteins stimulate mitochondrial respiration, ion
transport, and atpase, but inhibit the 32pi-atp exchange reaction.
thus these effects may not be so uniquely a measure of the biological
actions of parathyroid hormone as the previous reports suggested.
rasmussen et al. (1964) have also isolated from parathyroid
extracts a protein that is inert in vivo but stimulates mitochondrial
transport of phosphate in vitro.  they postulated that this protein
might be yet another biologically important factor produced by para-
thyroid glands.  the latter speculation may not be warranted in view
of the uncertain specificity of protein effects on mitochondria.  all
of our tests completed to date show that the non-hormonal parathyroid
proteins c1 and c2 are unrelated either biologically, immunologically,
or chemically (by amino-acid analysis) to the parathyroid hormone.
further rigorous studies are necessary to precisely determine
whether any effects of parathyroid hormone on mitochondria validly
reflect the mechanism of action of the hormone and whether it is sound
to use the in vitro tests as bioassay tools.
.I 552
.W
the treatment of phosphatic encrusted cystitis
(alkaline cystitis) with nalidixic acid.
phosphatic encrusted cystitis is caused by
persistent infection by b. proteus or ps. pyocyaneus
associated with an alkaline urine.  its incidence
may be increasing and may follow megavoltage
therapy of a bladder tumour.  its incidence in
post-radiation cases is 2 per cent.
mandelamine often fails to relieve this
condition.  in this series of ten patients who had
failed to respond to mandelamine, eight
responded to treatment with nalidixic acid.  no side
effect of treatment was noted in the series.
nalidixic acid is of value in the treatment of b. proteus
infections of the urinary tract, and is the drug
of choice in the treatment of phosphatic encrusted
cystitis.
.I 553
.W
role of the liver in the glycoprotein mobilizing property of
parathyroid extract
studies were carried out to de-
termine the action of hepatectomy on the
glycoprotein action of pte as well as on
pte-induced renal calcification and deposi-
tion of glycoprotein.  our data showed that
in hepatectomized rats, pte no longer caused
an elevation in serum glycoproteins.  how-
ever, hepatectomy did not alter the forma-
tion of glycoprotein tubular casts produced
by pte administration.  the data suggest
that the liver is the major source of the ele-
vated serum glycoproteins found in rats re-
ceiving pte.  in addition, it is possible that
pte may have a direct stimulating action
on biosynthesis of glycoprotein by the kidney.
.I 554
.W
distribution and excretion of radioactivity after parenteral
administration of radioactive polydiethylstilbestrol phosphate
to rats and a cow.
polydiethylstilbestrol phosphate
(psp), a water soluble polyester of phos-
phoric acid and diethylstilbestrol, was in-
jected in rats and a cow and the distribution
and excretion of radioactivity were followed
in both species.  after a subcutaneous or
intramuscular injection the bulk of the radio-
activity was accumulated at the site of injec-
tion.  the disappearance of radioactivity from
this depot was very slow.  as late as 90 days
after the injection into rats, 20% of the
administered radioactivity was still accumu-
lated at the site of injection.  the liver was
very effective in removing labeled material
from circulating blood.  twenty-four hours
after intravenous injection in rats, about
50% of the radioactivity was recovered from
this organ.  the distribution of radioactivity
in the cow indicated that the polymer was
preferably accumulated in organs containing
reticuloendothelial cells.
.I 555
.W
study of phosphate excretion by the stop-flow
technique
m. de myttenaere
the stop-flow technique has been applied to the dog in an attempt to
rule out tubular secretion of phosphate and to locate the site of action of
parathyroid hormone (p.t.h.) on the renal tubule.  under the experimental
conditions used, no significant inward transtubular movement of p32 could be
demonstrated, ruling out tubular secretion of phosphate.  stop-flow
experiments performed in parathyroidectomized dogs before and after p.t.h.
administration demonstrated inhibition of phosphorus reabsorption by the
hormone.  in addition, the stop-flow pattern indicated that this
phenomenon took place mainly in the distal part of the proximal tubules.
.I 556
.W
stupor, hypercalcemia and carcinoma of the
renal pelvis
since albright suggested that some tumors
"might be producing parathyroid hormone," hy-
percalcemia associated with malignant tumors with-
out bony metastases has been recorded with increas-
ing frequency.  transitional-cell carcinoma of the
renal pelvis is here added to the list of neoplasms
that hypercalcemia may accompany.
.I 557
.W
anodized aluminium grains labelled with radiophosphorus
for medical purposes
g. b. fasolo, r. malvano, u. rosa and e. zimmer
interstitial b-therapy, by implantation in tissues of
radioactive sources, is widely applied to the treatment
of certain forms of human malignancies.  among the
radio-elements proposed for this therapeutic technique,
yttrium-90 and gold-198 are the most generally used.
radiophosphorus (32p) shows some attractive features
because of its suitable half-life (14.3 days) and its rather
high-energy b-emission (maximum energy 1.71 mev);
but the use of this radionuclide is limited by the diffi-
culties found in the preparation of safe solid sources.  the
only techniques we have found in the literature are those
reported by riechert and mundinger and by rames and
moravek, who used respectively small plastic capsules
filled with phosphomolybdic acid solution, and ca(po4),
grains, labelled with phosphorus-32.  these methods
require a delicate preparative work, and, moreover, a
large b-self-absorption effect can be expected in both
cases.
a new simple method for the preparation of grains
labelled with phosphorus-32 basically consists in ad-
sorbing labelled po4 3- ions on an active aluminium oxide
film produced by anodic oxidation of aluminium wire.
the adsorption capacity of the oxide film for po3 3- ions
is quite high, but the process is reversible: the phos-
phorus-32 activity is partially desorbed, even after
'sealing' in boiling water, when the labelled wire is kept
in isotonic sodium chloride solution.
.I 558
.W
effect of parathyroidectomy and ferric dextrin
upon calciphylactic sensitization by uremia
experiments on the rat indicate that calciphy-
lactic sensitization can be achieved by bilateral
nephrectomy.  intravenous administration of a
ferric dextrin preparation (fe-din) induces
selective calcification in the buccal mucosa,
esophagus, trachea and mediastinum of the
nephrectomized rat although it produces no such
changes in intact control animals.  conversely,
fe-din prevents the cardiovascular calcification
normally elicited by nephrectomy.  parathy-
roidectomy protects the nephrectomized rat
against the fe-din-induced calciphylaxis.
hence, it may be concluded that: 1) autologous
parathyroid hormone, in amounts secreted by
the glands, can act as a calciphylactic sensitizer
and 2) fe-din is highly effective in protecting the
cardiovascular system against uremic damage.
.I 559
.W
mediastinal parathyroid adenoma
a case of hyperparathyroidism with hypercalcemic crisis is presented.  the
tumor was a well differentiated and encapsulated parathyroid adenoma, un-
usually located in the anterior mediastinum, lying both within and without
the pericardial sac.  the surgical approach was directly through the sternum
with a mediastinal exploration.  the postoperative course was uneventful and
gratifying, with complete correction of both symptoms and abnormal laboratory
findings.
.I 560
.W
clinical experience with
primary hyperparathyroidism:
evaluation of treatment
forty-four patients with "operatively proven" hyperparathyroidism were
evaluated to decide 1) whether or not the diagnosis could be substantiated
by some postoperative observations other than the gross anatomic diagnosis
of the operative specimen and 2) what the long term value of operative
treatment would be.  it was found that an immediate and significant fall
in urinary phosphorus excretion best documented the diagnosis of primary
hyperparathyroidism.  over intervals up to 10 years, follow-up of the
patients suggested a favourable response of the disease to operative
treatment.
.I 561
.W
the dilution test as a measure of renal function in niobium-poisoned rats
control, female, albino rats given a water load of 50 ml/kg, excreted
50 per cent of this load as urine within 94  11 minutes (teu50).
the administration of a single intraperitoneal dose ranging from 10
to 30 mg nb/kg resulted in 2- to 4-fold increases in the teu50 value
24 hours after the niobium was injected.
when niobium was complexed with ascorbic acid prior to injection the
teu50 value was within control limits.  however, rats given a single
intraperitoneal dose of niobium and then given 3 doses of ascorbic acid at
intervals of 1, 3, and 6 hours showed teu50 values that were not markedly
different from those observed in rats given niobium only.
increased teu50 values were observed in rats given single intraperitoneal
doses of uranyl nitrate (1.2-2.4 mg u/kg), mercuric chloride (2.0 mg hg/kg)
and sodium tripolyphosphate (480 mg/kg).
.I 562
.W
influence of parathyroid activity on ion
exchange in various tissues
1. balance data from three patients with hypoparathyroidism, who were
given parathyroid extract, are presented.  the metabolic response was
complex.  the data demonstrate losses of phosphate, magnesium, sodium
and potassium which were not accounted for by destruction of either bone
or non-osseous tissues.  preferential depletion of these minerals from bone,
or loss from non-osseous tissues, must be presumed.
2. the exchange of ca45, mg28, and p32 in a spectrum of rat tissues has
been studied in sham operated, parathyroidectomized, and parathyroid
extract treated rats.  the effects of parathyroidectomy on the development
of magnesium deficiency were determined.
3. four hours after parathyroidectomy, increased transport of calcium
into bone, kidney, intestine, liver, brain, and muscle was found.  six days
after parathyroidectomy equilibrium had been reestablished and exchange
rates were identical to those in sham operated animals.
4. the administration of parathyroid extract was associated with de-
creased transport of ca15, mg28, and p32 into bone.  ca15 exchange in kidney
was reduced but in all other tissues exchange of ca15 and mg28 was in-
creased.  p32 exchange in both intestine and kidney was mardedly increased
in animals receiving the extract.
5. parathyroidectomy greatly minimized the manifestations of mag-
nesium deficiency in young rats on magnesium deficient diets.
6. the results suggest that parathyroid hormone may affect the trans-
port and exchange of calcium, magnesium, and phosphate (and perhaps
sodium and potassium) in tissues other than those usually considered to
be target organs.
.I 563
.W
effects of alkalosis on plasma concentration and urinary
excretion of inorganic phosphate in man
acute respiratory and metabolic alkalosis have
been shown to depress plasma phosphorus con-
centration in normal man.  the fall in plasma
phosphorus concentration is greater in respiratory
than in comparable levels of extracellular meta-
bolic alkalosis.  this fall is not attributable to in-
creased renal excretion or to migration into red
blood cells.  the evaluation of low serum phos-
phorus concentrations should always be carried
out with a knowledge of the ph and total co2
content of the plasma.
.I 564
.W
the relationship between vitamin d and parathyroid
hormone
marit von stedingk
the effect of parathyroidectomy and parathy-
roid hormone administration upon the concentra-
tions of plasma calcium and phosphate have been
measured in vitamin d-deficient rats and the re-
sults compared to those observed in d-fed ani-
mals.  also, the influence of dietary calcium and
phosphate content upon these responses has been
investigated.  parathyroidectomy in the d-fed ani-
mal results in a rapid fall in plasma calcium and a
biphasic plasma phosphate response with an initial
fall followed by a striking rise.  in contrast,
parathyroidectomy in the d-deficient rat is fol-
lowed by no significant change in plasma calcium
and an immediate rise in plasma phosphate that
can be prevented by the administration of para-
thyroid hormone.  dietary phosphate restriction
abolished the effect of parathyroidectomy in both
groups of animals.
administration of a dose of 500 u of hormone
to the intact d-deficient rat had little influence
upon plasma calcium; a dose of 2,000 u did in-
crease plasma calcium.  a dose of 25 u was suffi-
cient to increase the plasma calcium of the d-fed
animal.  these results are discussed in relation
to the effects of vitamin d and parathyroid hor-
mone upon mitochondrial metabolism.
.I 565
.W
decrease in serum and urinary phosphorus in man
in the course of pyrotherapy
during the fever
peak occurring a few hours after the in-
jection, urinary phosphorus (up) dis-
appears entirely.  this fact cannot be
accounted for by the parallel decrease in
gfr, because serum phosphorus level
(sp) does not increase (as it would be
expected to, should retention occur) but
on the contrary, it, too, declines to a
marked degree.
the possibility that changes in sp and
up could have been brought about by an
increased utilization of glucose was also
considered.  an intravenous glucose toler-
ance test (method of macho and licko
(8)) was carried out in another group of
patients on control days and on days of
pyrotherapy five hours after the pyrogen
administration.  an increase in the rate of
"glucose utilization" was observed
(table 2).  however a different opinion is
found in the literature.  in the course of
glucose tolerance tests, conn (3) and
comparini (9) observed a lowered rate of
glucose utilization in febrile subjects.
malizia (10) found an accentuated rate
of decline of serum phosphorus during
glucose tolerance tests in subjects with
high temperatures, but the glycemic
responses did not differ from those ob-
tained when controls without fever were
subjected to the same tests.  whether it
be for utilization purposes or not, the
fact remains that a massive transfer of
phosphorus from the serum into the
tissues takes place in fever.
.I 566
.W
relationship of maximal tubular phosphate
reabsorption to filtration rate in the dog
a maximal renal tubular rate of reabsorption of phos-
phate (tmp) has been demonstrated in the normal dog.  in
the dog, as in the man, considerable variability in the tmp
often occurs.  while some of this variability remains unex-
plained, a direct relationship between glomerular filtration
rate (gfr) and tmp can be demonstrated when the gfr is
varied over a wide range.  this relationship suggests that
glomerular intermittency may exist in the dog.
.I 567
.W
human growth hormone
clinical measurement, response to hypoglycemia and suppression by
corticosteroids
a standard test of growth-hormone secretory ca-
pacity, based on radioimmunoassay of plasma growth
hormone after insulin hypoglycemia, is described.  in
normal subjects a standard insulin tolerance test, caus-
ing an average blood glucose drop to 34 per cent of
resting values, produced a mean rise in growth hor-
mone to 45.2 millimicrogm. per milliliter at one hour,
with a total range of 25 to 70 millimicrogm. per mil-
liliter.  no response was observed in 5 hypopituitary
subjects.
under comparable hypoglycemic stimulation glu-
cocorticoid-treated patients showed a marked in-
hibition of the growth-hormone response, which was
related to dose.  subjects receiving more than 60 mg.
of cortisol equivalent per day showed a mean plasma
rise to 6.7 millimicrogm. per milliliter (range, 1.5
to 13 millimicrogm.).  subjects receiving 20 to 60 mg.
of cortisol equivalent per day showed a mean rise to
16.6 millimicrogm. per milliliter (range, 13 to 20
millimicrogm.).
inhibition of human growth hormone was also
affected by duration of glucocorticoid treatment, be-
ing greater with long-term than with short-term ad-
ministration.
.I 568
.W
obesity and plasma levels of insulin and
growth hormone
studies of serum levels of glucose, free fatty acids, insulin, and growth
hormone during prolonged fasting suggest that insulin and growth hormone are
not responsible for certain metabolic abnormalities accompanying obesity.
.I 569
.W
hypophysectomy, replacement therapy, and the tolerance of the
euryhaline killifish, fundulus heteroclitus, to hypotonic media
hypophysectomized fundulus heteroclitus, as previously reported, survive only a
few days after transfer from salt to fresh water.  survival time is the same
when fish are tested 2 weeks or 2 months after hypophysectomy.  gradual
dilution of the external medium produces failure at an average salinity of
0.26% (0.67-0.02%).  this salinity is comparable to that causing failure after
abrupt transfer.  although failure is associated with hypochloremia, daily
injections of a balanced salt solution or 0.6% nacl shorten survival.
daily injections of teleostean neurohypophysial peptides, arginine vasotocin
(2.25 and 0.0225 pressor mu per gram) and isotocin (1.32 and 0.026 oxytocic mu
per gram) do not prolong survival.  an extract of caudal neurosecretory tissue
(urophysis) from male tilapia mossambica had no beneficial action at doses of
50 ug per gram every other day.  purified ovine prolactin.  105 mu per gram on
alternate days, maintained survival of 10 of 11 fish for the duration of the
28-day test period in fresh water, irrespective of the period of pretreatment
in salt water.  purified bovine prolactin prolonged survival and 2 of 6 fish
were maintained for 28 days.  purified bovine growth hormone was ineffective.
monkey growth hormone containing 2 u per milligram of prolactin activity,
administered at a dose of 20 ug per gram (equivalent to 40 mu per gram
prolactin activity), prolonged survival.  human growth hormone containing 4 u
per milligram of prolactin activity, at a dose of 20 ug per gram (equivalent to
80 ml per gram prolactin activity) also prolonged survival and 4 of 6 fish
were maintained for 28 days.
the ability of pituitary preparations to protect hypophysectomized
f. heteroclitus from failure in fresh water appears to be related to their
prolactin activity and not to their content of neurohypophysial peptides.
this suggests that an adenohypophysial hormone resembling mammalian prolactin
is essential for survival of this fish in hypotonic external media.  carp
pituitary preparations do not protect hypophysectomized f. heteroclitus
although f. heteroclitus pituitaries are known to be effective.
.I 570
.W
resistance to human growth hormone in pituitary dwarfism:
clinical and immunologic studies
thirteen pituitary dwarfs have
been treated with human growth hormone
(hgh), and growth acceleration with doses of
5-7 mg/week has been observed in all but one
patient.  on therapy, this 7 1/2-year-old girl grew
at a rate of 1.05 cm/month for 7 months.
thereafter, despite larger doses of growth
hormone (15 mg/week), growth rate fell to
0.27 cm/month.  this rate of growth persisted
after stopping hgh.  on retreatment on 2
occasions, acceleration of growth did not
occur.  antibodies to hgh, absent in her
serum before treatment, were repeatedly
demonstrated in her serum in high concentra-
tion (hgh binding capacity up to 100 mg/1)
during treatment.  comparable titers of anti-
body have not been found in any of the 12
other patients receiving long-term hgh treat-
ment.  the specificity of the human anti-hgh
serum differed from rabbit anti-hgh serum.
whereas both monkey growth hormone
(mgh) and hgh were effective inhibitors of
the binding of hgh-131i by rabbit antiserum,
only hgh was an effective inhibitor with
human antiserum.  in like manner, a crude
placental extract which was an effective in-
hibitor for rabbit antiserum was ineffective
with human anti-hgh serum.
.I 571
.W
influence of alloxan diabetes on
growth hormone content of the rat hypophysis
homog-
enates of adenophypophysial tissue obtained from alloxan-
injected adult male rats varying in duration and severity of
diabetes, as well as from diabetic rats maintained on an
insulin replacement regimen, were assayed in immature
hypophysectomized female rats.  the ability of these crude
hypophysial extracts to encourage tibial cartilage width ex-
pansion gain in body weight, and to depress hematocrit and
blood area levels was determined.  significant decrements in
ability to increase epiphysial cartilage width and ability to
depress hematocrits were noted 14 to 28 days following injection
of alloxan.  increasing the intensity of the diabetic state was
associated with decreased growth-promoting potency of hypo-
physial preparations as well as with decreased ability to
influence the hematological indices.  hypophysial extracts taken
from insulin-treated diabetic rats contained more growth
hormone than equivalent amounts of tissue obtained from
control rats.  it is concluded that the adenohypophyses of
diabetic rats contain diminished amounts of growth hormone
and the insulin repairs or encourages greater than normal ac-
cumulation of somatotrophin in these animals.
.I 572
.W
pheochromocytoma
without hypertension
the patient developed symptoms of pheochromo-
cytoma about 15 years after the diagnosis of
eosinophilic adenoma of the pituitary gland.  the
predominating symptoms were profuse sweating
and tachycardia.  hypertension, hyperglycemia, and
glycosuria were absent.  the relation of the quan-
tity and the relative composition of catechol
amines to the symptomatology is discussed.  some
speculation regarding the etiological importance of
hypersecretion of growth hormone in pheochromo-
cytoma seems to be in order.
.I 573
.W
hypoglycemia, growth retardation, and probable
isolated growth hormone deficiency in a
1-year-old child
a heretofore unreported association of defects, namely hypoglycemia, growth
retardation, and deficiency of serum growth hormonelike activity in a
1-year-old child is described.  human growth hormone (hgh), 3 mg. a day for 7
days, doubled the fasting blood sugar, prevented the postprandial hypoglycemia,
and reversed the sensitivity to tolbutamide and leucine.  treatment with 1 mg.
of hgh 3 times a week produced a growth of 7 inches in 3 months compared to a
growth of 1 inch in the previous 13 months.  since the protein-bound-iodine and
the response to methopyrapone were normal and the blood level of growth hormone
was low, this case is presented as a probable isolated growth hormone
deficiency.
.I 574
.W
production, secretion, and availability
of insulin
a more precise understanding of the metabolic phase of diabetes mellitus
requires reliable information concerning the synthesis, manner of release and
transport of insulin, as well as of the behavior of agents which interfere with
the actions of the hormone by inhibition or destruction.  we shall deal with a
variety of these problems here and it might be helpful at the outset to outline
first our present understanding of the chemical structure of insulin since
many useful hints flow out of a consideration of the nature of the molecule.
.I 575
.W
growth and growth retardation
various attempts have been made over the years to define growth.  from
the standpoint of this review, growth is the physiological accretion of new
tissue which is reflected in the acquisition of protein and water.  this
process in almost all instances leads to increase in size (length, weight, and
volume) and actively progresses from the fertilization of the ovum to the
period of sexual maturity where millions of cells are present in a state of
advanced organization.  with further time, growth is less and, indeed, may
become negative insofar as cells are lost.
.I 576
.W
long-term treatment of hypopituitary and of
achondroplastic dwarfism with human
growth hormone
we have treated an 8 year old hypopi-
tuitary dwarf intermittently with hgh
(wilhelmi) for 4 years.  with 1 mg. 3
times a week the monthly growth rate
was 1/4 inch.  as treatment continued he
became resistant.  increasing the dosage
to 3 mg. 3 times a week at the age of 12
induced a monthly growth rate of 2/5
inch.  this growth-promoting effect is at
least as great as that reported for the
li and raben preparations.  we have
also treated a 15 year old severely de-
formed 'achondroplastic' dwarf for a
year.  with 3 mg. 3 times a week he
grew 1/2 inch in the first month.  the
spurt in growth subsided.  with 5 mg.
3 times a week he grew another 1/2 inch
in a month, but growth was not main-
tained.
.I 577
.W
acromegaly
the effects of various steroid hormones on the
insulin-induced growth hormone response
and peter h. forsham
the availability of a sensitive assay for human growth hormone has made
it possible to directly measure the effects of various agents purported to
alter growth patterns.  acromegalic patients present a special problem both in
early diagnosis and in therapy.  being able to measure growth hormone in
these patients provides an accurate index of activity and a precise measure
of therapeutic effectiveness.
in an attempt to determine whether a pituitary block of growth hormone
secretion is feasible in this condition, a study was made of the effects of
estrogen, androgen and glucocorticoid administration on growth hormone
response to a standard insulin tolerance test in a patient with active acro-
megaly.  in the dosage schedules used in this study, it was not possible to
suppress either basal growth hormone secretion or blunt its responsiveness
to the normal physiologic stimulus of hypoglycemia.
.I 578
.W
practical human growth hormone
preparation and clinical use
human growth hormone was prepared from
acetone-dried pituitary powder by hot glacial
acetic acid extraction and subsequent precipita-
tion by sodium chloride and cold acetone.  the
yield was 13 per cent and the preparation was
called practical growth hormone in recognition
of its complement of corticotropin.
treatment of two dwarfs with practical growth
hormone in aqueous solution, 1 or 2 mg intra-
muscularly on alternate days, accelerated the
growth rate and there were no physical signs or
laboratory indications of adrenal stimulation or
other adverse effects.  the preparation is recom-
mended for its safety, simplicity and relatively
good yield.
.I 579
.W
hypophysectomy and the lipolytic action of epinephrine in vitro
the response of normal adipose
tissue to epinephrine (0.05 ug/ml incubation
medium) is completely abolished by hypo-
physectomy of the donor rats.  treatment of
hypophysectomized rats with crude, whole
rat pituitary extract restored the lipolytic ac-
tion of epinephrine to normal.  posterior pi-
tuitary extract and corticotropin replacement
was without effect.  thyrotropin injections
produced a partial, and growth hormone
treatment a full restoration of the lipolytic
action of epinephrine.  treatment of hypo-
physectomized rats with cortisol or cortico-
sterone reestablished the sensitivity of their
adipose tissue to epinephrine, but only when
relatively large doses of these hormones were
given.  physiological doses of triiodothyronine
(1 ug/rat/day), however, restored the nor-
mal response to epinephrine.  it is concluded
that several endocrine factors can influence
the lipolytic action of epinephrine but that
their physiological importance cannot yet be
quantitated.
.I 580
.W
c-acetyl bovine growth hormone
a procedure is described for labeling bovine growth hormone
and human albumin with c-acetylation.  the labeled molecule
was biologically and antigenically similar to unlabeled bovine
growth hormone.  following administration of the labeled
hormone to animals, the label appeared to remain attached to
the growth hormone molecule for at least 4 hours.  administra-
tion of the labeled hormone promoted growth in hypophysec-
tomized rats and increased the free fatty acid concentration
in rabbit serum to a degree comparable with that seen following
administration of unlabeled growth hormone.  rabbit anti-
bovine growth hormone serum neutralized the rat growth
response to the acetylated hormone, and immunized rabbits
had altered isotope dilution and no increase in serum free fatty
acids after intravenous injection of the labeled hormone.
.I 581
.W
growth hormone
growth hormone influences protein, fat,
carbohydrate, and mineral metabolism.  it
promotes nitrogen retention, growth of
cartilage, transportation of amino acids
through the cell wall, and incorporation of
amino acids into protein.  this factor mo-
bilizes free fatty acids from adipose tissue
and increases the serum concentration of
these substances; long-term administration
of this hormone is followed by depletion of
body fat stores and inhibition of fatty acid
synthesis.  in diabetic subjects growth hor-
mone administration is followed by hyper-
glycemia, glycosuria, and ketosis; its effect
on carbohydrate metabolism in normal sub-
jects is more subtle.  sodium, potassium, and
inorganic phosphate are retained following
the administration of growth hormone.
hypercalciuria also accompanies such treat-
ment, an effect mediated through the para-
thyroid glands.
human growth hormone may be detected
in the serum through the use of the radio-
immunoassay.  the hypothalamus is inti-
mately involved with the control of the
secretion and release of growth hormone
from the pituitary.  there is a correlation
between the availability of glucose for me-
tabolism and the plasma concentration of
growth hormone; when glucose is unavail-
able growth hormone is released in order to
provide a substitute source of energy, fatty
acids.
the administration of growth hormone
to the patient with hypopituitarism is fol-
lowed by growth in many instances, but it
has not usually been effective in promoting
growth in individuals with other abnormali-
ties.  acquired resistance to the effect of
growth hormone is accompanied by the de-
velopment of antibodies directed against
this protein.
.I 582
.W
recent advances in physiology of bone: part i
our introductory textbook summarizes knowledge of the biochemistry and
physiology of bone and calcium metabolism up through 1960.  in this lecture,
we will outline a few important advances appearing since that time.  references
to the original literature need not be repeated here.  the
object is to bring some of the subjects we are investigating up-to-date and
to present new problems for laboratory research.  the hypothetical new hormone,
calcitonin, of copp and cameron will be discussed in detail in dr. mclean's
lecture on the parathyroid glands and bone.
.I 583
.W
hyperplastic lesions of mouse mammary
glands after treatment with 3-methyl-
cholanthrene
hyperplastic lesions were present in the mammary glands of
mice treated with 3-methylcholanthrene and exogenous hormones.  the
lesions were similar to those found in glands that were exposed to mammary
tumor virus.  it is probable that the production of mammary gland hyper-
plastic lesions could serve as a measure of the effectiveness of a chemical
compound as a carcinogenic agent for the mammary gland.
.I 584
.W
bone growth and metabolic studies of premature
infants treated with human growth hormone
the influence of exogenous human
growth hormone on growth and metabo-
lism of premature infants was observed.
it was not possible to register any in-
crease of linear bone growth after hormone
administration; concomitantly urinary hy-
droxyproline excretion did not change
significantly.
nitrogen balance studies indicated a
sharp increase of nitrogen retention, due to
a reduced urinary excretion, in all infants.
calcium and phosphorus balances rose in
three out of four premature infants treated
with growth hormone, but the characteris-
tic sth calciuric action of sth was not
observed.  furthermore, sth failed to in-
duce any significant increase in nefa
serum concentration of premature infants.
it may therefore be concluded that the
metabolic response of premature infants to
sth differs consistently from that normally
observed in more mature subjects.
.I 585
.W
growth hormone action on rat liver rna
polymerase
the effect of growth hormone on the activity of the
rna polymerase measured in this system is shown in
table 2.  it can be seen that hypophysectomy of the rat
results in decreased activity of the rna polymerase and
that the injection of 1 mg of human growth hormone into
the rat 12 h before death increased the enzyme activity
both in hypophysectomized rats and in normal rats.
however, the stimulating effect of growth hormone was
only seen in the absence of high concentrations of ammon-
ium sulphate; raising the ionic strength of the assay
medium abolished the growth hormone effect.  it should be
mentioned that addition of growth hormone in vitro in the
presence or absence of ammonium sulphate has had no
significant effect on the labelling of the rna by the
nuclear preparations.
.I 586
.W
mammary growth in rats treated with somatotropin during
pregnancy and/or lactation
groups of rats received daily
injections of 2 mg somatotropin (sth) from
either day 3-19 of pregnancy or day 1-13
of lactation.  another group of rats received
graded increments (0.5-3.0 mg) of sth
every 6 days during both pregnancy and
lactation.  other groups of rats served as
pregnancy and lactation controls.  mammary
gland deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) content
was determined in all rats and milk yield
was determined in all rats carried to day
14 postpartum.  significant increases in mam-
mary dna occurred in all rats treated with
sth irrespective of dose or schedule of in-
jections when compared to gestation controls.
a significant elevation in mammary dna
above the lactation control level was also
evident in rats receiving the hormone and
carried to day 14 of lactation.  milk yield
of rats treated with graded increments of
sth was significantly greater than that of
control lactators but milk yield of rats re-
ceiving a constant daily dose of the hormone
did not differ from that of controls.
.I 587
.W
growth retardation accompanying diabetes insipidus: an additional
mechanism?
from the above considerations, we may divide patients with nephrogenic
diabetes insipidus into at least two categories: (1) those who fail to respond
to currently available therapeutic products as well as to their own presumably
normal secretion of adh; (2) those with similar similar unresponsiveness to
treatment but with presumably reduced secretion of adh.  the adh-growth hormone
theory may well account in part for growth retardation in the later group.
.I 588
.W
studies on growth hormone secretion
in rats with the hypophysis autotransplanted
to the kidney capsule
the secretory capacity of the pituitary gland, autotransplanted to the
kidney capsule, was studied with special regard to the secretion of growth
hormone (gh).  body weight, body length, tibial epiphyseal width and
the mammary gland development after testosterone stimulation were
studied.
body growth and tibial epiphyseal width were markedly reduced in the
rats with transplanted hypophysis, but not as much as in the hypophys-
ectomized controls.  after injections of 0.25 mg testosterone propionate
daily for 10 days, only a few groups of alveoli were seen in the mam-
mary glands of the transplanted rats.  these observations show that there
is a considerable deficiency of gh in rats with the pituitary gland auto-
transplanted to the kidney capsule.  however, the development of a few
alveoli in the mammary glands is in favour of the theory that a small
amount of gh is secreted from the transplanted pituitary tissue.
injections of a purified vasopressin preparation (pitressin) in the rats
with autotransplanted hypophysis did not influence body growth, tibial
epiphyseal width or mammary gland development.  further, no effect of
pitressin was seen on the tibial epiphyseal cartilage of rats with intact
pituitary gland as has been reported by del vecchio et al. (1958) and
hiroshige & itoh (1960).  these experiments therefore do not support the
view that vasopressin acts as a gh releasing factor.
.I 589
.W
the effect of human growth hormone in
hypopituitary dwarfism
human growth hormone (hgh) raben has been
used in a dosage of 2 mg./m.2/day or 5 mg./m.2 twice
weekly.  this dosage is probably in or below, but
certainly not above, the range of physiological
replacement therapy.
in a standardized five-day metabolic hgh test
hypopituitary dwarfs retain more n than children
without gh deficiency.  this test is valuable
diagnostic help in hypopituitary dwarfism.
a prolonged treatment with hgh accelerates
growth in hypopituitary dwarfs but not in children
without gh deficiency.  growth rate, induced by
this treatment, is first above average and later average
or below average for age.  this decreasing response
to hgh is typical for the general phenomenon of
catch-up growth and is not caused by the develop-
ment of antibodies.
of 9 hypopituitary dwarfs, treated for at least 9
months, 3 were growth resistant from the beginning
in spite of a high n retention in the preceding hgh
test.  this resistance is caused by the development
of high titres of specific hgh antibodies in the very
first few months of treatment.  these antibodies
suppress the effect of hgh both on metabolism and
on growth.  the unexpected occasional induction in
man of antibodies against a homologous protein
hormone is of great interest.  the possibility that
these antibodies might be active not only against the
homogenous but also against the endogenous hormone
could have a far-reaching biological importance.
.I 590
.W
effects of short term administration of
hysiological doses of human growth hormone
in three patients with turner's syndrome
h. e. sjoberg
the effect of apparently physiological doses of human growth hormone
was investigated in three patients with turner's syndrome in short term
metabolic balance studies.  the subjects presented an abnormal sex chro-
mosome constitution and an increased level of sulphation factor activity
in serum.
two dose levels of hormone were used, and there appeared an anabolic
response to both.  no correlation with dose was obtained for any of the
parameters used except for urinary magnesium, where the retention was
greater with the higher dose.  the sulphation factor activity of serum in-
creased during hormone administration in the one case studied in this
respect.
the urinary excretion of hydroxyproline was within the normal range in
the two patients studied in this respect, and was not altered by growth
hormone.
all patients had an increased urinary excretion of creatine which at
present cannot be explained.  the creatinuria diminished during growth
hormone treatment.
the mechanism behind the retarded growth is discussed.  it is suggested
that a major factor might be a defect in the center for linear growth,
i.e. the epiphyses that would make these less responsive to all the factors
normally stimulating the growth processes in the epiphyseal zones.
.I 591
.W
the effect of growth hormone
on kidney transamidinase in the
hypophysectomized mouse
the role of growth hormone and certain other endocrine factors in re-
gulating kidney transamidinase has been investigated in the mouse.  the
kidney transamidinase values are low following hypophysectomy.  growth
hormone administration in doses of 0.5 to 5.0 ug/day (ovine nih) restore
the enzyme activity towards normal.  a bioassay for growth hormone is
suggested based on the determination of the total kidney transamidinase.
intact mice that had been given relatively large doses of triiodothyronin
had low enzyme activities.  enzyme values in alloxan-treated mice were
normal.
.I 592
.W
influence of hormones on tumor growth and plasma prolactin levels in rats
bearing a pituitary "mammotropic" tumor
the effects of estradiol, cortisol acetate, thyroxine, or thiouracil on
tumor growth, organ weights, and plasma prolactin levels were determined
in rats bearing a furth pituitary "mammotropic" tumor (mtt.f4).  this
tumor is known to secrete large amounts of adrenocorticotropin, somatotropin,
and prolactin, but no follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone,
or thyrotropin.  at the dose levels used, estradiol significantly suppressed
tumor growth without influencing body growth, and it partially inhibited
enlargement of the adrenals and atrophy of the thymus.  cortisol acetate
significantly reduced both tumor and body growth.  thyroxine had no significant
effect on tumor growth but enhanced the somatotropic effect as indicated by
increases in body growth and organ weights.  thiouracil had no significant
effect on tumor or body growth, although it significantly increased thyroid
weight.  estradiol, cortisol acetate, and thyroxine each increased the plasma
prolactin levels of the tumor-bearing rats.
.I 593
.W
studies with human growth hormone
ten dwarfed patients whose short stature was of
varying aetiology were studied by investigation of
some of the metabolic effects of human growth
hormone, 10 mg. being administered daily for a
period of 5 to 9 days.  the patients were maintained
on a constant diet during a preliminary control
period, while receiving hgh, and in 7 patients from
2 to 7 days in the post-hgh period.  hgh produced
a reduction in serum cholesterol, with a
rebound on withdrawal, in 7; a delayed clearance of
fat from the blood after a fat load in 9; and the
appearance of pre-b lipoprotein in the fasting state,
as measured by paper electrophoresis, in all of them.
the fall in serum cholesterol and the rebound on
withdrawal of hgh has some relevance to the
observation that hypercholesterolaemia occurs in
some hypopituitary patients even in the absence of
hypothyroidism.
no change was observed in tests of thyroid and
adrenocortical function during the short-term high
dosage administration of hgh.
hypopituitary patients show a considerable
retention of nitrogen on hgh administration, and
we have confirmed the work of prader and his
colleagues that this provides a valuable diagnostic
test for growth hormone deficiency.  the measurement
of urinary nitrogen excretion after the withdrawal
of hgh also promises to be a useful investigation
in the differential diagnosis of short stature.
nitrogen excretion in the withdrawal phase in
hypopituitary children returns slowly to its pre-hgh
levels; two non-hypopituitary dwarfed
children excreted much more nitrogen in the withdrawal
period than they retained in the hgh
period.  one primordial dwarf showed a negligible
change in urinary nitrogen excretion both in the
hgh and in the post-hgh periods.
.I 594
.W
hormonal modification of the distribution of 1-amino-
cyclopentanecarboxylic acid-1-c14 in the rat
four hormones have been examined for their ability to alter the distribution
in the rat of the new model amino acid,
1-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid-1-c14.  although
the total tissue concentrations of this
amino acid were considerably less than those
found previously for a-aminoisobutyric acid,
the changes produced by the hormones were
much the same for both amino acids.  hydrocortisone
elevated the liver level of 1-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic
acid within 2 hr.
bovine growth hormone accelerated entry of
the amino acid into both skeletal muscle and
liver of hypophysectomized rats within 1 hr.
testosterone propionate elevated its distribution
ratio in the kidney but not in skeletal
muscle, whereas b-estradiol significantly increased
uptake of the model amino acid only
by the immature uterus.  only growth hormone
produced a significant change in the serum
level of 1-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid
under the conditions used.
.I 595
.W
insulin and insulin antagonism
as i said earlier, no simple answer
has yet emerged from the large amount of
research that has been directed toward determining
the nature of the substance or substances
responsible for the diabetes-inducing
and insulin-antagonizing actions of the
anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, and to
ascertaining their mechanism of action.
growth hormone and corticotropin certainly
qualify, but so do any other factors that can increase the mobilization of fats
as plasma albumin-bound free fatty acids.  the idea
that the yet incompletely characterized insulin
antagonist in the pancreas may be
liberated into the blood under the influence
of growth hormone and may play a role in
the process by which growth hormone diminishes
the activity of insulin in promoting
the utilization of glucose is attractive to me,
but still remains to be confirmed.
.I 596
.W
relationships of growth hormone, steroids and relaxin in the
transformation of pubic joint cartilage to ligament in
hypophysectomized mice
the histological changes occurring
in the pubic joint of hormonally
treated intact or hypophysectomized mice
have been studied.  estrogen treatment resulted
in bone resorption and transformation
of the cartilage caps of the pubic bones to
fibrocartilage in intact mice but not in hypophysectomized
mice.  furthermore, relaxin
failed to influence the appearance of the pubic
joint of estrogen-primed hypophysectomized
mice, whereas it induced the development of
long interpubic ligaments in intact mice.
when growth hormone (sth) was administered
to hypophysectomized mice, the pubic
joints responded to estrogen with bone resorption
and transformation of the cartilage caps
to fibrocartilage.  sth treatment also restored
the ability of the pubic joint of hypophysectomized
mice to proliferate long interpubic ligaments
when estrogen and relaxin were administered.
progesterone specifically inhibited
ligament formation due to relaxin injection
without altering the histological changes
associated with estrogen treatment, both in
intact mice and in sth-maintained, hypophysectomized mice.
.I 597
.W
effect of testosterone propionate and growth hormone on
growth and chemical composition of muscle and other
tissues in hypophysectomized male rats
the effect of testosterone
propionate and growth hormone on the
growth of muscle, bone, pelt, viscera and
seminal vesicles was studied in hypophysectomized
male rats.  testosterone (0.1 mg/day)
stimulated growth in the levator ani muscle
and seminal vesicles but had no effect on the
other tissues studied.  growth hormone (0.1
mg/day) accelerated growth in all tissues
except the seminal vesicles.  testosterone did
not enhance the growth-promoting effect of
growth hormone in any tissue except the
levator ani muscle.  growth hormone stimulated
deposition of myosin, sarcoplasmic
proteins, collagen and alkali-soluble proteins
in the thigh muscle of hypophysectomized
rats.  the composition of the muscle in treated
and control hypophysectomized rats was the
same as that in normal rats.  growth hormone
also increased the collagen, keratin-clastin
and globular protein content of the pelt.  the
effect of growth hormone on the proteins of
muscle and pelt was not enhanced by testosterone.
testosterone given alone had no effect
on the chemical composition or content of the
muscle and pelt in hypophysectomized rats.
.I 598
.W
growth hormone and diabetes mellitus
since the advent of insulin the vascular and neurological
lesions have replaced ketoacidosis as the major
problem in diabetes.  although good control of hyperglycemia
and glycosuria with diet and insulin may
influence favorably the development of the ocular angiopathy,
there remains a high incidence of these
lesions with resulting blindness despite such good
control.
growth hormone may be a major factor in the
pathophysiology of diabetes mellitus and its effects
may be a reflection of the genetic disturbance.  its importance
was first realized by the classical experiments
of houssay and those of young which revealed its
diabetogenic effects in experimental animals.  the association
of acromegaly with diabetes has been for a
long time the major argument in support of the hypothesis
of the diabetogenic effect of growth hormone
in man.
.I 599
.W
experiments on the contribution of somatotrophin to prenatal growth in the rat
hypophyseoprivus in a fetal rat induced by decapitating the fetus in utero
retards fetal growth.  this effect can be prevented by injected somatotrophin.
these observations substantially support the view that in the normal rat
shortly before birth the fetal somatotrophin from the developing hypophysis
governs in part the prenatal growth which occurs at that time.  although
complete hypophysectomy of a pregnant rat retards
the growth of fetuses, the manner
of its action is obscure.  in an individual litter, combined hypophysectomy
of the mother and hypophyseoprivus in a fetus retards fetal growth but not
to any greater extent than hypophysectomy of the mother without
hypophyseoprivus in the fetus.  in the intact fetus injections of somatotrophin
(armour) do not accelerate fetal growth, presumably because ample fetal
somatotrophin from the developing hypophysis is present.
.I 600
.W
insulin and protein metabolism
the present status of protein synthesis within cells has
been outlined.  protein is formed in the absence of insulin;
the net formation of protein is accelerated by insulin.  the
effects of insulin on protein metabolism take place independently
of the transport of glucose or amino acids into the
cell; of glycogen synthesis; and of the stimulation of high
energy phosphate formation.  in the case of protein metabolism,
as in certain studies on the pathways of glucose and
fat metabolism, these observations reveal striking intracellular
effects of insulin in many tissues.  within most
tissues the effect of insulin appears to find expression predominantly
at the microsomal level.  incidentally, other
hormones which affect protein metabolism such as growth
or sex hormones appear to act at the microsomes.  the fact
that insulin exerts effects on protein metabolism at other
intracellular sites as well as the above independent effects
leads one to agree that its action consists of a stimulation
of multiple, seemingly unrelated, metabolic events.
the fact that an immediate effect of insulin on protein
synthesis is independent of the immediate need for extracellular
glucose or amino acids does not mean that the
sustained functioning of cells is likewise independent.  the
biochemist is fully aware of metabolic defects in diabetes
which are not altered by insulin in vitro, but which demand
varying periods of pretreatment of the animal.  it is
also known that in diabetes some proteins (enzymes) may
be deficient while others may be produced in excess in the
absence of insulin.
it is suggested that the physician desires at least two
kinds of relation between these fundamental studies and his
patients.  one is the possible relation of a deficiency of insulin
action to pathological processes in tissues which have
not as yet been examined by the methods described.  the
other is the need for more accurate measurements of the
metabolic disorder and its control than such things as
urinary and blood glucose.  in developing such future improvements,
the place of insulin in protein biosynthesis
must be kept in mind.
.I 601
.W
the influence of blood glucose on the plasma
concentration of growth hormone
a. berson, m.d.
a sensitive and specific assay method has been used to
demonstrate acute changes in plasma hgh in normal and diabetic subjects.
hgh secretion is suppressed by glucose administration
and markedly stimulated by hypoglycemia, by interference
with intracellular glucose utilization.  high levels of hgh
were also observed during prolonged fasting, after exercise,
and four to six hours following oral glucose administration.
abnormalities in hgh secretion were found in association
with acromegaly and obesity, and following section of the
hypophyseal stalk.
the half time for disappearance of endogenous plasma
hgh is twenty to thirty minutes.
.I 602
.W
failure to thrive: the diencephalic syndrome of infancy and childhood
we have presented a case of a patient with an
astrocytoma of the optic chiasm who demonstrated
the features of the "diencephalic" or
"failure-to-thrive" syndrome.  overactivity, overalertness
and emaciation were significant symptoms
in this patient.  roentgenograms characteristically
demonstrate normal bone growth,
good muscular outline, and absent subcutaneous
fat.  increased growth hormone was found and
may be a factor in the disturbed lipid metabolism.
.I 603
.W
increased stature
the fact that some patients respond to growth-hormone
administration with linear growth does not indicate growth-hormone
deficiency or hypopituitarism.  yet this appears to
be the main factor that led these authors to assume that
their patients were suffering from hypopituitarism.  the
conclusion that children with growth retardation should be
subjected to a short trial period of treatment with growth
hormone to single out those who are deficient in growth hormone
is therefore of questionable validity.
rather, because of the limited supply of human growth
hormone, it appears that much more stringent criteria for
administration of human growth hormone should be advocated.
every effort should be made to uncover the patients
who might benefit from growth hormone by utilizing reliable
tests of pituitary function and perfecting a suitable growth-hormone
assay.  those who have more than suggestive evidence
of hypopituitarism and growth-hormone deficiency
should then be treated and carefully evaluated for response
after long-term treatment.
.I 604
.W
on language disorders in young children: a reorganization of thinking
current questions and confusions about
the use of the term aphasia with reference
to young children seem often to
reflect semantic problems accruing
from professional habits of thinking in
terms of etiologic and pathologic labels.
it is argued that if the term aphasia is
generalized simply to refer to inabilities
or interferences in the development of
language comprehension and use, then
it is the task of an evaluating group to
describe as well as possible, and in detail,
the specific impairments of function
in each child.  this task commonly
requires the use of an extensive period
of "diagnostic teaching," wherein care
is taken to explore which sensory and
motor modalities are working and
which are not, and whether integration
of various stimuli is taking place.
some current ideas are discussed with
reference to descriptions of impairment,
causal factors that are fairly unique in
childhood, some thoughts about the
neurophysiology of the human "language
system," and some psychosocial
factors important for language-learning.
special attention is given to various relations,
in terms of temporal resolving
power, between sensation and sensory
integration.  a scheme, or model, is suggested
which may prove fruitful for
experimental design in attacking some
of these problems at a prelanguage or
premeaning level.  it is argued that the
proportion of "unknowns" can be reduced
by careful study based on information
about impaired functions within the sensory-integrative-motor complex,
without particular regard for "site and
extent of lesion."
.I 605
.W
therapy for hearing-impaired children
in comparison with the u.s.a. and
europe, canada is still in the early
stages of developing rehabilitative services
for speech and hearing-impaired
children and adults.  they are available
in some large canadian cities, but in
the opinion of the authors, these services
and more should be made available
to the hearing impaired of every canadian community.
specialists in the rehabilitation of
communication problems, along with
members of other medical, paramedical and social services, recognize
the vast variety of communication
problems that can occur in persons
of all ages, the tremendous handicap
that such problems represent to the
individual, the loss that such handicapped
persons represent to our society
and the pressing need for efficient and
effective rehabilitation.  more practically,
it is hoped that this article has
made its readers more aware of the
vast variety of rehabilitative procedures
available today for the hearing
impaired.  with a better understanding
of the problems of defective hearing,
it is hoped that all readers, professional
and non-professional, will join
in mutual support for the establishment
of these vitally needed services
in their respective communities.
.I 606
.W
baby habits, genesis and ontogenesis
for adam may be looked upon
as the personification of paleolithic
man-100,000 generations of primitive
human animal-whose evolution
can be of vast importance to
the understanding of the ontogenesis
of the behavior of babies.  not
for nothing did the deuteronomist
reiterate "remember the days of
old, consider the years of many generations"
.I 607
.W
speech therapy with selected patients with
congenital velopharyngeal inadequacy
this paper has described the clinical speech problems of three patients
without cleft palates but with velopharyngeal inadequacy.  pharyngeal
flap surgery was performed on each patient after speech therapy was
found to be ineffective following systematic trial.  therapy continued
following the surgery.  the youngest child, a first grader, realized normal
speech following the surgery and therapy.  the two other children continue
to have aberrant but improved speech.
.I 608
.W
stimulus overload, action cycles, and the completion gradient
systematic inquiries into the origin of certain emotional disturbances
of infants show that consistent maternal care is vital for the
child's normal physical, psychic, and social development, indeed,
for his survival.  the most elementary precondition for consistent
maternal care is the physical presence of the mother or her substitute.
it has, however, become increasingly apparent that children's
development can also be stunted, and that they suffer damage of
varying extent by the attention of, and close contact with, a mother
who dispenses what seems to be the "wrong kind of mothering".
a model of the mother-baby interaction is proposed to explicate
the dynamics of the "wrong kind of mothering" and its
consequences: my proposition is that the mutual exchanges between
mother and baby consist in a give and take of action and
reaction between the two partners, which requires from each
of them both active and passive responses.  these responses form
series and chains, the single links of which consist in what i call
"action cycles," each completed in itself and at the same time
anticipating the next link.  i designated these seriated response
exchanges as the "precursor of dialogue," as a primal dialogue.
the dialogue acts as a vector of the baby's development,
influencing its direction and stimulating it to adaptive efforts and
psychic growth.  it follows that inappropriate mothering (quantitatively
as well as qualitatively) results in what is referred to at
this time as the "derailment" of the primal dialogue.
controlled experiments with animals, findings of experimental
psychology, and, lastly, clinical findings illustrate the
mechanics of the derailed dialogue and its sequelae.
in the cases under review a surfeit of stimulation, a psychic
overloading, resulted in the derailment of dialogue.  overloading
prevents its subject from completing actions or responses initiated
by him.  long-lasting overload results in the cumulation of "incompleted
action cycles".  the sequelae of this cumulation are
profound changes in the behavior of the individual.  these changes
are manifested in a departure from the norms of individual and
social behavior patterns that are maladaptive for the individual
and asyntonic with his society, that is, asocial.
the derailment of the dialogue is triggered, perhaps even
caused,
by the nature of the social setting.  one setting, over-population,
is extensively discussed in connection with an animal
experiment, and the implications for the human community are
examined.
.I 609
.W
children at kelbourne
kelbourne school, glasgow, which educates both
spastic and aphasic children, is the first school of its
kind to be administered by a local education authority.
its aphasic department, largely experimental in nature,
contains children aged three to eight.  in the spastics
department there are 45 children with severe physical
handicaps and their ages range from 3 to 16.
the school, which celebrated its golden jubilee last year,
has its origins in the maryhill hall public school for
defective and epileptic children which opened in 1907
with 12 pupils in premises of which, as an h.m.i. reported
four years later, 'it was impossible to speak favourably'.
the report continued, 'a public hall, used frequently in
the evenings for public entertainments, lacking proper
cloakrooms, bare in appearance, and generally comfortless,
should not be used for this purpose'.  the inspector's
words did not go unheeded and seven years later the
children were transferred with others to the new buildings
of percy street special school.  in the 1950s the name was
changed to kelbourne school.
between and through two world wars the school
provided education for physically and mentally handicapped
children but in 1955 a new unit was added and
spastic children were admitted for the first time.
gradually the emphasis shifted from children with other
physical and mental handicaps to the cerebrally palsied
and finally the entire building became available for
spastics.  two years ago the aphasic children joined the
school.  miss e.f. hamilton is the headmistress.
.I 610
.W
deafness
methods of detection, diagnosis, and management of deafness
in children depend so entirely on a knowledge of the processes
involved in communication by speech and in the acquisition of
this skill that i propose to consider them first.  it will be found
that the practical steps to be taken in dealing with patients flow
naturally from this knowledge.
.I 611
.W
pharyngoplasty in speech
where adequate palate repair is undertaken at 1 year there is no indication
for pharyngoplasty as well at that age.
pharyngoplasty is indicated as a "supportive" operation only when the
result of the palate repair can be assessed (5 years plus), and where the
speech result proves disappointing.
the figure of 171 pharyngoplastics in 944 cases applies to the known speech
results up to april 1963.  it follows that with follow-up of the more recent
primary cases pharyngoplasty may well be necessary in some.
the hynes pharyngoplasty has proved to be the most satisfactory.
.I 612
.W
verbal effects in the intermediate-size transportation problem
preschool children were given an intermediate-size discrimination problem,
told before each response that the reward was under the "medium" stimulus:
and 1- and 3-step transposition tests.  during training, group i was
group ii was told that it was "not under the big or little one"; and group
iii was not told anything.  the verbalizations were not given during the
tests.  groups i and ii learned the initial discrimination faster than group
iii, and transposed more than group iii, but there was a distance effect
in all three groups.  these results, and other data, suggest that the
deficiency in the verbal control over motor behavior in young children arises
from deficiencies in both the decoding and encoding processes.
.I 613
.W
the acquisition of formal features of language
children from different groups do not learn the same uses and functions for
language.  but every child must learn the formal features, or the "code" for
his language, thus creating a constant in every language acquisition situation.
.I 614
.W
mongolism-some clinical aspects
this is a review of 86 mongoloids seen over 5 years at the nebraska psychiatric
institute.  one-half of the sample were evaluated before their second
birthday.  eighteen per cent of the cases for whom birth weight data were
available weighed less than 5 1/2 lbs., double the national rate for
prematurity.  there was a bi-modal distribution of mother's age at the birth of
the mongoloid child.  pregnancy, labor and delivery complications were
reported in almost one-half of the cases.  seven per cent were breech
deliveries.  all cases were mr.  the most frequent type was moderate.  most
frequently mentioned characteristics were: generalized hypotonia (all but 2
cases); psychiatric disorders, 11 cases; abnormal eeg, 8 cases; hearing loss,
5 cases.
.I 615
.W
learning problems in children: ii. emotional aspects
at the last meeting we tried to deal with a general over-all approach
to the problem of learning, considering it not merely as a problem in
reading, but learning in general which begins at birth.
we hope to deal with this problem at a relatively high level and we
want to have the emotional problems dealt with in this manner rather
than in terms of diagnostic criteria.  the child with learning problems
should not be compartmentalized in terms of "organicity" and "nonorganicity".
the subject of this talk, then, is emotional issues in learning.
.I 616
.W
management of communication problems in infants and children
early detection and referral of a
child with a hearing or speech-language problem
is feasible and in most cases, very critical.  further
consultation can then be obtained and the child
placed on a training program geared to his needs.
.I 617
.W
the formation of a cleft palate unit- a preliminary report
with cleft palates, as in other surgical fields, changing
techniques and better management of the patient as a whole
render inexcusable the operative procedures that merely
drag together the edges of the defect and then leave a
cosmetically and functionally crippled child, to adapt itself
as best it may to the harsh competition of the outside
world.
ironically the problem of congenital defects increases as
our competence to deal with them advances.  in the past
these cases struggled to take their place on the marriage
market but the more skilled our rehabilitative procedures
become, the more likely are they to perpetuate their disability,
since a significant number show a hereditary tendency.
.I 618
.W
acquisition of language
although the work of bullowa, jones, and bever has some of its greatest
promise in the light it may shed on the development of functions of language
in children, the promise cannot be realized unless the authors give
a great deal of explicit attention to the framework of such analysis, for there
is not, as may be the case for phonological and grammatical development,
anything like a satisfactory body of linguistic theory and method as to the
terminal state.  while a good deal may be learned without such a theory, and
necessarily must be so learned, since the work in progress cannot be suspended
until such an unpredictable millenium, it still would be a pity if the
chance were lost for the interaction of the acquisition of data and the
improvement of theoretical notions.
let me complete my discussion by developing my argument in two
ways: (a) by briefly stating the nature of the problem with regard to the
terminal state of verbal development, (b) and by indicating what present
and future contribution such fields as anthropology, sociology, and social
psychology may be able to make to the solution of the problem.
.I 619
.W
the speech production and spoken language of the deaf
the distinction was made between speech production and spoken language in
analysing the oral output of those with hearing impairment.  a brief review of
studies in both areas was undertaken, including the report of a new electronic
visual monitoring device, the glossal transducer.  it was postulated that the
deaf utilise a unique visual-to-motor conversion within the brain when speaking
and monitor conscously by tactile-kinaesthetic control.  the more recent
studies relate to the syntactical features of the speech of the deaf.  these
show that deafness creates telegraphic speech with reduced sentence length and
omissions of essential words such as functors.  the speech of the deaf seems to
contain mostly nouns and verbs, with a limited number of words used to expand
verb forms.
.I 620
.W
cognitive functioning in early infantile autism: an examination of four cases
by means of the wechsler intelligence scale for children
the results are communicated which were obtained from an examination,
by means of the wechsler intelligence scale for children, of four cases of
early infantile autism.  these cases had developed in such a way that a
reliable investigation by means of a mental test had become possible.
according to their full scale iq's the four cases fell within the category of
dull normal intelligence or less.  all of them showed a considerable
discrepancy between the verbal and the performance iq, the performance iq being
of much higher value.  the composition of the autistic test profiles was
characterized by a large variability in the subtest scores, discriminating the
autistic group significantly from non-autistic control groups.  the subtest
score divergencies, responsible for the large variability, showed a distinct
pattern, being specific for the autistic group as a whole.  this group could
be considered as a distinct group particularly by a marked tendency to achieve
poorly and far below the subject's average level in the subtests comprehension
and vocabulary, and to achieve superiorly and far above that level in the
subtests block design and object assembly.  by specifying the mental functions,
conditional for success in these four subtests that occupy extreme positions
within the autistic test profiles, it was concluded that the autistic patients
apparently were able to achieve well, or even superiorly, only if the task
could be performed on a purely perceptual level.  but they failed as soon as
an appeal was made to thinking proper.  this was thought to be due to a
disability in dealing with imaginary things and imaginary situations, or,
in other words, to an incapability to objectify what is not actually present
in the subject's concrete situation.  it is proposed that this impairment
could be reduced to a lack of symbolic means, being the correlate of a
defective or insufficiently developed language in the patients.  it is further
proposed that children suffering from early
infantile autism might not be able,
or at a later stage only, to reach that level of language development in which
words can be used as symbols,
representing absent things and absent situations.
.I 621
.W
otologic care of cleft palate cases
the purpose of this study was to review the ear pathology
in 480 patients whose cleft palates had previously been repaired.
despite concern over speech regression, tonsil and
adenoid surgery was carried out on 66 of these patients.  when
carefully done, this was accomplished with considerable overall
improvement, particularly for the benefit of the conductive
hearing loss.
sixteen cases had exact documentation of these results by
virtue of speech recording and accurate audiometric records.
.I 622
.W
congenital heart disease, deaf-mutism and associated somatic malformations
occurring in several members of one family
m.d. and patrick h. lehan, m.d.
a unique family is described in which the
mother and four of her eight children have pulmonary
stenosis.  two of the four affected children
are deaf-mutes; one of these has, in addition
to the pulmonary valvular stenosis, idiopathic
hypertrophic subaortic stenosis.  all the affected
children had several associated somatic malformations.
genetic and nongenetic factors and
their role in the development of the malformations
are discussed.  it is suggested that the cardiac
defect is transmitted by a single non-sex-linked
genetic factor (dominant autosomal
inheritance).  in the presence of a normal karyotype
it appears that a single dose of either a
point mutation, or a small deletion or translocation
is the most likely cause.
.I 623
.W
histidinemia
a review of published reports of
histidinemia indicates that this condition
has a variability of clinical and biochemical
expression.  three children with histidinemia,
born of a consanguineous marriage
are reported here.  they had blond hair,
blue eyes, speech defects, mental retardation,
and a peculiar eeg abnormality.  they
also exhibited characteristic biochemical
findings of the disease: elevated blood and
urine histidine, increased urine imidazolepyruvic
acid, and a sustained high rise in
plasma histidine following an oral histidine
tolerance test.  they did not, however, have
the reduction of skin histidine a-deaminase
activity which has been observed in some
children with this condition.  tests for determination
of heterozygotes in the family
were not successful.
parental consanguinity and normal skin
a-deaminase activity set these children apart
from other reported cases.  the first lends
support to the hypothesis that histidinemia
is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait;
the second supports the idea that the genic
fault which results in reduced histidine a-
deaminase activity can be expressed to a
different degree in different tissues.  these
children seem to represent a variant of
histidinemia where liver histidase activity is
reduced while skin histidase activity is
present.
.I 624
.W
interpretation within the metaphor
analytic investigation of the use of the metaphor was first given impetus
by ella freeman sharpe (1950), who explored the symbolic
meaning of particular metaphoric phrases with reference to the body
and libidinal needs.  currently, interest has become focused upon the
use of the metaphor as a self-conscious, rational therapeutic technique
of communication, of particular value with those patients who have
reached "the borderline of sanity".  ekstein (1961) and ekstein and
wallerstein (1957) have emphasized that the use of the metaphor
should be regarded as an essential technique for gradually establishing
communication and initial insight with borderline and schizophrenic
patients but that it must not be regarded as a treatment technique
in itself.  it is but a preliminary approximation to the final therapeutic
act, which ultimately will consist of a classical interpretation
at the level of the secondary process.  the use of the metaphor derives
its primary value from maintaining contact with patients who are
constantly in danger of being inundated by a break-through of primary-
process material.
.I 625
.W
evolution of a characteristic speech disorder in
juvenile cerebral lipidosis
juvenile cerebral lipidosis is being diagnosed with increasing frequency in
this country, especially in schools for the visually handicapped.  the
manifestations of rapidly developing loss of vision, seizures, muscular
rigidity, ataxia, retinitis pigmentosa and eeg abnormalities are well known in
this disorder.  a speech disorder described as a "lolling, stammering speech"
was mentioned by sjogren (1931) in his comprehensive description
of juvenile amaurotic idiocy, but this has not been emphasized in
recent descriptions.  this report, based upon an analysis of 5 cases,
describes the evolution of a characteristic form of speech pathology that
is invariably present in juvenile cerebral lipidosis.
the initial speech abnormality seen early in the disorder is a hesitancy of
speech and occasional repetition of words.  in time, dysarthria becomes
evident with slurring, nasality and impairment of phonation similar to that
seen in pseudobulbar palsy.  in addition to the dysarthria, a highly
characteristic perseverative speech appears which often has a close resemblance
to true stuttering.  this stuttering-like speech has been observed in 4 of the
5 cases at some time during the course of their illnesses.  as the speech
patterns deteriorate, the patient becomes less communicative and finally lapses
into mutism.  the speech disorder is often the most disabling aspect of this
syndrome.
.I 626
.W
relation of crying activity in early infancy to speech and intellectual
development at age three years
rosenfeld
cries of 38 infants, age 4 to 10 days, were measured for outburst
frequency during the most active 20-sec. period of crying.  crying
scores showed a significant correlation (.45) with stanford-binet iq
at 3 years, a borderline correlation (.32) with cattell iq at 15 to 20
months, and a nonsignificant trend with speech ratings at 3 years.
although no correlations were adequate for individual prediction,
infant crying is deemed worthy of further investigation as a possible
indicator of intellectual potential.
.I 627
.W
labial supportive appliance
the patient with a repaired cleft lip and palate and an associated
displacement and deficiency of the premaxilla presents problems which
may be of concern to the plastic surgeon, speech pathologist, orthodontist,
and prosthodontist.
the upper lip may appear flat or retruded in relation to the lower lip.
when maxillary anterior teeth are missing, either congenitally, naturally
(as in the mixed dentition period), or because of neglect, the upper lip
may appear to be rolled under the premaxilla.  the lower lip usually
assumes a characteristic 'pouty' appearance.
this complex of tissue deformities also may be important in the articulation
of speech sounds.  fricatives and plosives are difficult to produce
correctly because of the malposition of the lip.  there may be interference
with direction of air current, contact of tongue to alveolar ridge, and
normal contact of lips.
corrective procedures are designed to improve the labial profile and to
establish more normal relationships of intraoral structures.  these
procedures, employed individually or in combination, may include othodontic
movement of maxillary segments, dental prosthesis, and cheiloplasty.
another more recently developed adjunct involves autogenous
osscous implantation in the cleft areas.
.I 628
.W
heterogeneity of the 'cleft palate population' and research designs
the primary point made in this paper is that we must reject the notion
that there is some inherent, universal commonality among individuals
who are born with a cleft lip and/or cleft palate.  we must recognize the
various pertinent subgroups within this population.  this does not mean,
however, that one must always recognize the smallest subgroup in doing a
given study.  on the contrary, we would defend the use of fewest possible
subgroups consistent with the specific research purpose.  nevertheless, we
feel that time spent considering the purposes of a study and the subgroups
which need to be identified will tend to minimize the number of
contradictory results, and will assist us in the interpretation of the
observations that our insight and technology make possible.
.I 629
.W
cineradiographic comparison of normal to noncleft subjects with velopharyngeal
inadequacy
cineradiographic studies of the normal subjects were compared with
studies of noncleft subjects who demonstrated velopharyngeal inadequacy.
the following conclusions were made: a) there was a significant difference
between soft palate length in normals and the velopharyngeal inadequacy
group.  b) there was not a significant difference between depth of nasopharynx
in normal and the velopharyngeal inadequacy group.  c) the
difference of the means of the soft palate length and depth of nasopharynx
between the normals and velopharyngeal inadequacy group was significant.
d) the thickness of the soft palate was greater in the normal than the
abnormal group.  e) in 70% of the normal and velopharyngeal inadequacy
groups the height of soft palate elevation was above the palatal plane.   f)
in 80% of the normal group the height of velopharyngeal closure took
place below the palatal plane.  none of the subjects in the velopharyngeal
inadequacy group obtained velopharyngeal closure.  g) there was no significant
correlation between amount of gap and voice quality.  h) there was
no significant correlation between amount of gap and intelligibility of
speech.  i) there was a difference between vital capacity readings for the
velopharyngeal inadequacy group with nose occluded and unoccluded.  j)
the correlation coefficient between quality judgment and intelligibility
judgment was highly significant.
.I 630
.W
spontaneous verbal rehearsal in a memory task as a function of age
a distinction is made between 2 alternative hypotheses for explaining an
often-reported deficiency in verbally mediated performance during early
childhood: (1) the verbal response is made, but tends not to mediate
performance ("mediational-deficiency hypothesis"); (2) the verbal response
tends not to be made ("production-deficiency hypothesis").  a study is
described which attempts to meet the ideal criteria for a test of the
production-deficiency hypothesis.  the method used was that of direct
observation of s's spontaneous verbalizations, and the hypothesis was confirmed
by the finding that kindergarteners are less likely than older children to
rehearse stimulus names in a nonverbal serial recall task.
.I 631
.W
early experience and the socialization of cognitive modes in children
this paper deals with the question: what is cultural deprivation and how
does it act to shape and depress the resources of the human mind?  the
arguments presented are: first, that the behavior which leads to social,
educational, and economic poverty is socialized in early childhood; second,
that the central quality involved in the effects of cultural deprivation is a
lack of cognitive meaning in the mother-child communication system; and, third,
that the growth of cognitive processes is fostered in family control systems
which offer and permit a wide range of alternatives of action and thought and
that such growth is constricted by systems of control which offer predetermined
solutions and few alternatives for consideration and choice.
the research group was composed of 160 negro mothers and their
4-year-old children selected from four different social status levels.
the data are presented to show social status differences among the
four groups with respect to cognitive functioning and linguistic codes and
to offer examples of relations between maternal and child behavior that are
congruent with the general lines of argument laid out.
.I 632
.W
recovery of mycoplasmas in the study of
human leukaemia and other malignancies
numerous reports have been published concerning the
necessity of testing for the presence of mycoplasmas before
the interpretation of experiments performed in cell
cultures.  such tests are especially important when
the presence of viruses is suspected, since recent evidence
indicates that some mycoplasmas are capable of eliciting
a transmissible cytopathic effect.
in addition, some mycoplasmas and viruses share
properties, such as size, filterability, morphology in
electron microscopy, sensitivity to ether, ability to
haemagglutinate and cause haemadsorption, interference
with virus replication in vitro, lack of inhibition by certain
commonly used antibiotics and inhibition of growth by
homologous antiserum.  thus, the absence of ordinary
bacteria and moulds in preparations eliciting a cytopathic
effect in cell cultures is an unreliable criterion for viral
identification.  great caution should be exercised in
classifying new agents as viruses, especially as myxo-
viruses, without adequate testing to exclude their identity
as mycoplasmas.
.I 633
.W
pneumonia due to mycoplasma pneumoniae
its incidence in the membership of a co-operative medical group
ruth mcmahan, edmund r. clarke, william a. maccoll, and j. thomas grayston
a total of 1051 cases of pneumonia occurred in
72,992 persons who were members of a medical
co-operative in the period december 1, 1963, to
december 31, 1964.  the annual rate of pneumonia
was 12.9 per 1000.  isolation of mycoplasma pneumoniae
from throat swabs was attempted in over
half the cases reported, and paired blood specimens
were obtained in one third.  on the basis of laboratory
examination of these specimens, the incidence
of clinically recognized pneumonia due to m. pneumoniae
was between 1 and 1.5 persons per 1000
per year.
although peak rates of pneumonia occurred under
five years of age (45 per 1000) pneumonia due to m.
pneumoniae was uncommon in this age group.  it
was most common in children five to nine years old,
and was frequently the cause of pneumonia in adolescents
(ten to nineteen years of age).  the rates in
children in primary school was twice the average
incidence.  m. pneumoniae pneumonia also differed
from the pneumonias of other etiology in that it
occurred throughout the year, with no seasonal excess
whereas total pneumonia showed a predominance
in winter.
the typical clinical syndrome of the pneumonias
in which m. pneumoniae was isolated was one of
prominent systemic manifestations of headache and
fever, but few respiratory symptoms occurred except
cough.  upper-respiratory-tract complaints and an
elevated white-cell count were much more frequent
in the other pneumonias.  the patients with m.
pneumoniae pneumonia were almost never hospitalized
but suffered significant absenteeism.  they
came from larger families, usually with children of
school age.  reporting physicians were usually correct
in diagnosing these pneumonias as "atypical" or "viral."
.I 634
.W
establishment of a turkey flock free of 'n' strain mycoplasma
mycoplasma of the 'n' strain are frequently isolated from
turkey poults affected with airsacculitis but free of
mycoplasma gallisepticum.  research on the 'n' strain has
been impeded by the presence of a high proportion of
turkey poults with airsacculitis in all breeding flocks
examined, by the difficulty of culturing and identifying
the mycoplasma strains, and by the lack of a practical
serologic test.  this communication describes the establishment
of a small nucleus of 'n'-free turkeys from a commercial
breeding flock known to carry 'n' mycoplasma.
hens and toms for the production of 'n'-free poults were
selected from the parent flock by serology and culture.
.I 635
.W
septicemia due to mycoplasma hominis type 1
viola m. young, ph.d., and sheldon m. wolff, m.d.
a febrile illness that followed therapeutic abortion
and was accompanied by the presence of
mycoplasma hominis type 1 in the blood is described.
the patient upon recovery exhibited a specific
antibody response to the mycoplasma isolated
from the blood, as well as to another strain of the
same serotype.  these findings are regarded as additional
evidence for the pathogenicity of m. hominis
type 1 organisms, particularly in situations favoring
their dissemination from the female genital
tract.
.I 636
.W
infectie door mycoplasma hominis bij een pasgeborene
mycoplasma hominis infection in a newborn child.  --in a baby
born by a difficult forceps delivery, abscesses began to form
in the neck a few days after birth.  mycoplasma hominis was
recovered from the pus.
.I 637
.W
some intraspecies differences in antigens on
the surface of certain living human cells
surface antigens of several types of living cells of human
origin were partially characterized with hyperimmune antisera prepared in
the rabbit against living hela cells and living, uncultured, full-term, human
amnion cells.  hemagglutination, mixed-agglutination, and direct and
indirect immunofluorescence (fab) techniques were employed.  with
these techniques and fractional absorption procedures, common and specific
cell antigens were detected on the surface of several human living cells:
uncultured and primary amnion, two established human cell lines (rp am 1
and u amnion) of presumed normal origin and two (hela and hep-2) of
presumed malignant origin, and human erythrocytes.  none of the antigens
were found on nctc 2555 mouse cells.  the human cells possessed species-
related antigens demonstrable by hemagglutination.  after removal of
the hemagglutinins by absorption with human erythrocytes, antibody in high
titer for the homologous cells was detected by fab methods.  in addition,
some changes in antigens on the surface of amnion cells during primary
culture were observed.  finally, an antigen was found on hela and hep-2
cells, by use of anti-hela serum absorbed with human erythrocytes and rp
am 1 cells, that was not found on either human erythrocytes, uncultured
amnion cells, or on the cells of the two established amnion cell lines.  at
the dilutions used in the tests, antibodies to the abo blood group isoanti-
gens, forssman hapten, or adsorbed serum proteins could not account for
the antigens detected.  the possibility that mycoplasma sp. antigens
were responsible for the reactions was inconsistent with the results.  the
specificity of the fab methods on living cells was confirmed.
.I 638
.W
coombs-positive hemolytic anemia and generalized amyloidosis in
mice following transmission of subcellular leukemic material
following transmission with
cell-free supernatant fluid or with virus ex-
tract of leukemic tissue or plasma from vari-
ous types of murine plasma cell leukemias
a disease developed, characterized by hyper-
gammaglobulinemia, weight loss, anemia,
marked splenic, renal and hepatic amyloido-
sis and plasma cell infiltrations in the lungs.
the disease was also transmissible through
the placenta or with the milk of infected
mice.  in dba/2 males the incidence of the
disease was much higher (100%), the sur-
vival shorter and the anemia much more
severe than was the case in dba/2 females
and in (dba/2 x cba) f1 mice of both
sexes.  it is proposed that the development
of the lesions is mediated through an auto-
immune mechanism created by the antigenic
effect of the virus-transformed host cells.
.I 639
.W
the ph 6 antigen in strains of pasteurella pseudotuberculosis
and its relation to biological activities
it may be concluded that only part of the p.
pseudotuberculosis strains can synthesize the ph
6 antigen, whereas this property seems to be
shared by all the strains of p. pestis.  as in the
case of p. pestis, three kinds of biological activi-
ties were related to the presence of the ph 6
antigen isolated from a strain of p. pseudotubercu-
losis.
.I 640
.W
serological relationships among human mycoplasmas as shown
by complement-fixation and gel diffusion
and robert m. chanock
antigenic relationships among human
mycoplasmas were studied by complement-
fixation and agar gel diffusion techniques.  four
recognized human species.  mycoplasma hominis
type 1, m. hominis type 2, m. salivarium, and
m. fermentans were antigenically distinct in
these tests.  in addition, m. pneumoniae (eaton
agent, the etiological agent of cold agglutinin-
positive atypical pneumonia) was different from
these four species.  although these species were
distinct, evidence of shared antigenic components
was obtained in complement-fixation and agar
gel diffusion tests.  since rabbits were immunized
with mycoplasmas grown in rabbit muscle infu-
sion broth supplemented with rabbit serum or,
in the case of m. pneumoniae, with infected chick
embryo lung suspension, the possibility that the
heterologous reactions resulted from antibody
to growth medium components could be excluded.
four recent mycoplasma isolates from the oro-
pharynx were analyzed, and three were shown to
be closely related to m. hominis type 1, and the
fourth was closely related to m. salivarium.
although the recent isolates could not be dis-
tinguished from the related "prototype" human
species by complement-fixation, differences could
be detected by the agar gel diffusion technique.
.I 641
.W
mammalian cell cultures contaminated with
pleuropneumonia-like organisms
ii. effect of pplo on cell morphology in established
monolayer cultures
the occurrence of cytopathogenic changes in monolayer cultures of
pplo-contaminated mammalian cells has been shown to be related to
deficiency of arginine in the medium.  the same effects were seen when the
cell culture medium was depleted by pplo prior to application to pplo-free
cell cultures even though viable pplo were no longer present.  the fact that
the same picture resulted in the absence of pplo when either arginine or
glucose were omitted from the medium would indicate that, while the defi-
ciency created under the conditions described was specific, the cellular
changes could as well be the result of omission or depletion of other mam-
malian cell growth requirements.  the importance of surveillance of cell
lines for the presence of pplo to avoid misinterpretation of cytopathogenic
effects was stressed.
.I 642
.W
suppression of rous sarcoma virus growth in tissue
cultures by mycoplasma orale
an agent
which produced cell destruction in human diploid and chick-embryo fibroblasts
was isolated from wi-26 strain of human diploid fibroblasts and shown to be a
mycoplasma.  the multiplication of rous sarcoma virus (rsv) and rous associated
virus (rav) was inhibited in wi-26, wi-38, and chick-embryo fibroblasts
infected with this mycoplasma.  the mycoplasma isolate, designated strain 941,
reacted strongly in the complement-fixation test with antiserum to mycoplasma
orale ch19299, an isolate obtained from the human oral cavity.  the cytopathic
effect of mycoplasma strain 941 could be eliminated by growing the mycoplasma
on an artificial agar medium before inoculation into chick-embryo fibroblasts.
serial passage in chick-embryo fibroblasts restored the cytopathogenicity of
the agar-grown mycoplasma.  however, growth of rsv and rav was inhibited by
both the tissue culture-grown and the agar-grown 941 strain, and also by the
ch19299 strain which did not produce any cytopathic effect.
.I 643
.W
a method for direct demonstration of pleuropneumonia-like
organisms in cultured cells.
direct microscopic observation
of pleuropneumonia-like organisms (pplo)
in cell cultures is easily accomplished follow-
ing hypotonic treatment, air-drying and
staining with orcein.  a rapid technique using
fl human amnion cells, inoculated with su-
pernatant from suspected cultures, is de-
scribed.  the demonstration of pplo con-
tamination of 30 cell lines by this rapid
method was in complete agreement with re-
sults of pplo-agar techniques.
.I 644
.W
a fatal septicemic disease of infant puppies caused by
cytopathogenic organisms with characteristics of mycoplasma.
pathogenic organisms were iso-
lated from 2 outbreaks of a fatal septicemic
disease of infant puppies and from dog kidney
cells that degenerated spontaneously.  the iso-
lates were indistinguishable serologically and
possessed characteristics of mycoplasma.  the
pathogenic organisms were cytopathogenic for
dog kidney cell cultures, and in inoculated
puppies, produced pathological changes that
resembled those seen in natural cases.  le-
sions consisted principally of necrosis and
hemorrhage.  the isolates were culturally and
serologically distinct from recognized canine
mycoplasma species.
.I 645
.W
chromosome changes in pplo-infected fl human amnion cells.
characteristic chromosome
changes were observed in pplo-infected fl
human amnion cells.  these changes included
a gradual reduction in chromosome numbers,
increase in chromosome aberrations, and the
appearance of 3 new varieties.  although some
of the aberrations appeared early after infec-
tion, most changes developed slowly, over a
period of several months.
.I 646
.W
studies on mycoplasma pneumoniae
infection in sweden
sera from 107 cases of pneumonia and 132 cases of milder respiratory
infection were examined by the cf test against m. pneumoniae antigen.
thirty-five patients with pneumonia and 2 patients with bronchitis had
serologic evidence of m. pneumoniae infection.  all cases which had a
significant antibody rise with the cf test also showed a corresponding
rise with the fluorescent antibody test.  m. pneumoniae was isolated
from 10 of 18 serologically positive cases.  cold agglutinins were demon-
strated in 17 of 37 cases (46 per cent) with m. pneumoniae infection.
m. pneumoniae infections occurred during all seasons of the year and
were most common in older children and young adults.  the clinical
features of the cases with m. pneumoniae infection in this study re-
semble those described in similar investigations in other countries.
.I 647
.W
spontane genetische veranderungen am zellstamm l (earle)
the chromosomal constitution of a clone of the cell strain ,,l'' was studied by
repeated chromosomal analyses within 2 years.  there resulted the stability of
the cellular clone with regard to the tested feature for the duration of about
one year.
the maximal number of chromosomes amounted to 60-64.  in later tests a spon-
taneous doubling of the chromosomal number (maximum 120 chromosomes) was
ascertained.  the cause of this phenomenon could not yet be cleared up.  this
new chromosomal pattern remained unchanged in the subsequent examination period
of 6 months.
as was proved by these observations, under the present cultivation-conditions
cell populations can be retained stabile in vitro for a certain period.  the
defined substances, however, still imply unknown factors which may have a
mutagenous effect, so that sudden changes of cell populations may result.  the
respective physiological features are hardly known as yet.
.I 648
.W
chromosome changes in human diploid-cell cultures infected
with mycoplasma
this communication shows that mycoplasma may also
change cell chromosomes, and therefore emphasizes the
need for caution in interpreting experimental results
without adequately testing for the presence
of mycoplasma.  chromosome damage similar
to that described here has been induced by
viruses in cell cultures and in blood cul-
tures.  chromosomal abnormalities have
also been reported in blood cultures and bone
marrow from leukaemic patients.
.I 649
.W
evaluation of tylosin in
preventing egg transmission of
mycoplasma gallisepticum in
chickens
the inoculation of mycoplasma gallisepticum infective
yolk into the left posterior thoracic air sac of laying chickens
resulted in an infection which produced a rate of egg infection
satisfactory for experimental purposes.  culturing of all live
embryonating eggs as well as all dead and infertile eggs was
necessary to determine the rate of egg infection.  tylosin,
either injected subcutaneously, administered in the drinking
water, or employed in an egg-dipping solution, greatly reduced
but did not completely eliminate egg infection.  in the 3 egg
dipping trials, only 11 isolates of m. gallisepticum were ob-
tained from 2329 tylosin-dipped eggs, compared to 400 isolates
from 2984 control eggs.
.I 650
.W
epidemiology of mycoplasma pneumoniae
infection in families
and ruth mcmahan
the transmission and clinical manifestations of in-
fection with mycoplasma pneumoniae were studied in 114
families in which there was a case of atypical pneumonia.
m pneumoniae was isolated from a throat culture of the
index pneumonia patient in 36 of these families.  trans-
mission to other family members occurred in 23 of the
36 families.  in these 23 families, 84% of the children
and 41% of the adults were infected.  the index cases
are included.  of the total 59 patients with family-contact
infections, 42 had lower-respiratory-tract symptoms, 6
had pharyngitis alone, 9 (all children) were asympto-
matic, and 2 had probably unrelated symptoms.  the
time intervals between cases within a family suggested
a median incubation period of 23 days.  treatment with
tetracycline seemed neither to cure the symptoms com-
pletely nor to abolish the carrier state that often lasted
one to three months.
.I 651
.W
case of salpingitis due to pleuro-pneumonalike
organisms
a case of acute salpingitis following a diagnostic curettage and
aspiration of the pouch of douglas is described.  this case was resistant
to penicillin and streptomycin therapy.  a pure culture of pleuropneu-
monia like organisms (pplo) grew from pus removed from the secon-
dary pyosalpinx by aspiration.  these organisms were sensitive to tetra-
cycline which cured the adnexal infection.  no pplo were found in the
vaginal discharge.
pplo have frequently been isolated from the vaginae of healthy
and infected women.  however, only 9 cases of pelvic inflammatory
disease with a pure culture of pplo have been reported.  the possibi-
lity that these growths of pplo in the internal genitalia followed the
use of antibiotic therapy is discussed.
infection with pplo should be considered when pelvic inflam-
matory disease proves resistant to the common antibiotics.
.I 652
.W
the serological differentiation of mycoplasma strains (pleuro-
pneumonia-like organisms) from various sources
a complement fixation test with rabbit antisera was used to differentiate 82
cultures of mycoplasma from man, mammalian cell cultures, laboratory rats and
mice, cattle, goats, poultry, embryonated eggs and sewage.
seventeen serotypes were distinguished, 5 from man, 1 from mammalian cell
cultures, 4 from rats and mice, 4 from cattle and goats, 2 from poultry and one
saprophytic.  most of these corresponded to recognized species of mycoplasma,
but 1 of human origin (represented by 1 strain, navel), and 1 from tissue
cultures (5 strains), may represent new species.  r38, one of the serotypes
from rats, could be distinguished from the species m. arthritidis, but is
probably an antigenic variant rather than a distinct species.  two species
hitherto recognized as distinct m. arthritidis and m. hominis type 2, could not
be distinguished and appear to constitute a single species.  these findings
illustrate the necessity, from the viewpoint of taxonomy, of comparing
mycoplasma strains by serological methods.
the serotypes of human and animal origin were largely host-specific.
exceptions were the inclusion of m. arthritidis from rats and m. hominis type 2
from man in a single serotype, the finding of a bovine organism among the
strains isolated from goats and of a saprophytic strain in a rat.
in relation to the aetiology of disease in man and animals, the isolation of
an endogenous mycoplasma from embryonated eggs used to passage infective
material illustrates the importance of identifying these organisms
serologically.  the demonstration of mixed mycoplasma infections in lesions
in two rats shows the necessity of adequately purifying all cultures of
mycoplasma before examination.
.I 653
.W
spiramycin in the treatment of experimental
mycoplasmosis in day-old chicks and turkey
poults
day-old chicks and turkey poults experimentally infected with
m. gallisepticum have been treated at the time of infection, with
spiramycin administered by subcutaneous injection or drinking water
medication.
a dose of 100 mg/kg. bodyweight by subcutaneous injection or an
0.04 per cent. concentration in the drinking water continuously for
three days eliminated the infection in most of the birds, which
remained free of air-sac lesions and did not react to the slide agg-
lutination or haemagglutination inhibition tests.
.I 654
.W
further studies of agents isolated from tissue cultures inoculated
with human leukaemic bone-marrow
d. a. woods
mycoplasmas were isolated from tissue cultures inoculated
with bone-marrow from leukaemic patients.
all cultures which showed a cytopathic effect contained
mycoplasmas.
there was no evidence of mycoplasmas in control cultures.
the mycoplasmas isolated seemed biologically and serologic-
ally to be of one strain which was different from any previously
reported as being isolated from human sources although there
was some relationship to a rodent mycoplasma, m. pulmonis.
mycoplasmas cannot readily be distinguished from viruses
electron-microscopically.
the relationship of mycoplasmas to leukaemia is not yet
clear.
.I 655
.W
microbiological studies of reiter's disease
attempts were made to demonstrate viruses and
pplo in body fluids and synovial tissues of patients
with various rheumatic diseases.  all attempts to
demonstrate viruses were negative.  pplo were
looked for in 499 specimens from 114 patients with
rheumatic and non-rheumatic diseases.  whereas
these organisms were readily isolated from genito-
urinary specimens, they were found in none of 31
synovial fluid specimens.  they could not be grown
from synovial tissue biopsies of patients with
rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, gout,
gonococcal arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, traumatic
arthritis, or arthritis accompanying ulcerative colitis,
but they were present in one and possibly in two of
eight synovial tissue specimens from patients with
reiter's disease.  complement-fixation tests were
negative in nine patients with reiter's disease,
including the two from whose synovial tissues
pplo were thought to have been isolated.
.I 656
.W
recovery of a pleuropneumonia-like organism
(p.p.l.o.) from the genitalia of the female
albino rat
the genital organs of seventy-seven nonproductive breeder female rats
were examined grossly and histologically and bacteriological cultures of the
uterus and ovaries were made.  three of the seventy-seven animals showed a
purulent salpingitis and oophoritis.  a pleuropneumonia-like organism was
isolated from the uterus and ovaries of 29% of the animals examined.  the
cultures obtained from the genitalia were compared with the p.p.l.o. isolated
from the middle ears of some of these same animals and the two appeared to be
identical.  intraperitoneal injection of the p.p.l.o. cultures into young
rats and mice produced oophoritis and salpingitis in the mice but not in the
rats.
.I 657
.W
chronic respiratory disease in mice and rats
chronic respiratory disease (crd) in both mice and rats embraces two
separate entities, namely: infectious catarrh caused by mycoplasmas
(pleuropneumonia-like organisms) and enzootic bronchiectasis by a virus.
the two syndromes are discussed in regard to their etiology, pathologic
manifestations, and transmission.  particular attention is paid to the relation
of mycoplasmas to infectious catarrh.  the morphologic and cultural
characteristics of the catarrhal types of these organisms are considered
from the standpoint of differential diagnosis.  the importance of crd in the
maintenance of breeding colonies and in the use of animals for experimental
purposes is stressed.  methods for the establishment of specific pathogen-free
colonies, as a means of control, are briefly outlined together with
observations on a cesarean-derived line of swiss mice.
.I 658
.W
further observations of the lymphomas
of african children
during 1963, cytopathogenic, filtrable agents were frequently encountered in
cultures of embryonic human kidney cells following their inoculation with
supernatant fluids from primary human amnion cultures which had previously been
exposed to extracts of tumors and other specimens from east african children
with malignant lymphomas of the kind described by burkitt and others.  the
results seemed noteworthy because they suggested an intimate association
between the agents and the disease, and also because of the nature of the
isolations which involved two phenomena, an initial induction of a peculiar
spindling and twisting of the amnion cells
(fig. 1) and subsequently destructive changes
in kidney cells inoculated with fluid from such altered amnion cultures.  the
direct inoculation of embryonic kidney cells with extracts of tumors or bone
marrow never caused cytopathogenic effects nor did the isolated, transmissible
agents have the capacity to induce the amnion lesions.  nevertheless,
the two effects were closely associated and clearly related to the specimens.
the cytopathogenic agents were later cultivated on protein-rich media and
found to have the characteristics of mycoplasma.  they failed to induce
tumors in a variety of animals, and serologic tests in which they served as
antigen gave suggestive but inconclusive evidence of a relationship to the
disease.  the mycoplasma also failed to induce the amnion lesions caused by
the specimens.
.I 659
.W
mycoplasma species of man
at present, six distinct species of mycoplasmas
are known to infect man.  certain biological and
ecological properties of these agents have been
defined.  one species, m. pneumoniae, has been
definitely shown to be an important respiratory-
tract pathogen, and another species, m. hominis
type 1, may play a role in respiratory-tract and
genital-tract disease.
.I 660
.W
pleuropneumonia-like organisms
despite their small size, the pplo carry
the full complement of the chemical com-
pounds and enzymes contained in larger
bacteria and in cells.  they contain both
dna and rna, and in their independent
metabolism they are essentially like other free
living cells in contrast to the viruses which
have no independent metabolism outside the
living host cell.  several strains of pplo have
been cultivated from the mucous membranes
of apparently normal human subjects, espe-
cially from the respiratory and urinary tracts.
until recently, however, definite evidence of
the association between the pplo and clear-
ly defined clinical disease in the human sub-
ject was lacking.  in 1962 it became evident
that the so-called eaton "virus," originally
isolated by eaton and his associates in 1944
from patients with primary atypical pneu-
monia, was in reality a pleuropneumonia-like
organism.  typical pplo colonies are pro-
duced on a cell-free agar medium which is
enriched by the addition of blood serum or
yeast.  a number of strains of pplo has now
been identified, and in recognition of their
unique characteristics, they have been classi-
fied in a separate order, the mycoplasmatales,
genus mycoplasma.
.I 661
.W
problems of disease of
parathyroid glands
if biochemical tests indicate unequivocally
that there is a functioning parathyroid tumour,
usually an adenoma, its removal will relieve
symptoms and prevent any further damage to
organs such as the kidneys.  in 80 per cent,
of such cases the operation is not particularly
difficult to anyone with experience of thyroid
surgery.  the tumour is seldom of great size,
usually less than half an inch in diameter, but
a careful search in the expected position, in
close apposition to the posterior surface of the
thyroid lobes, will usually reveal it.  such
adenomata are usually more brown in colour
than the normal yellow gland; but in some 20
per cent, of cases one or more of the glands
may be aberrant, or possibly absent, and super-
numerary glands may be present.  it is usually
one of the lower pair of glands which occupies
an ectopic position and, as i explained in the
outline of the embryological development, it
may accompany the thymus into the mediasti-
num, rather a vast area in which to seek a small
tumour.  such an exploration cannot be lightly
undertaken, but if the evidence is indisputable
the burden must be shouldered.  it is correct
policy, i believe, first to carry out a thorough
exploration of the neck, and if this proves un-
availing, to inspect the mediastinum through a
sternum-splitting incision some two weeks later,
rather than completing this major undertaking
at one session.
.I 662
.W
the age factor in experimental hypertension
of the dca type in rats
rats aged 25 and 86 days were sensibilised by unilateral nephrectomy and a week
later were given 1.1 mg/100 g dca every third day for 6 weeks and a 1% nacl
solution to drink.  the younger rats reacted with a greater increase in blood
pressure, more so male rats.  hypertrophy of the heart and kidneys and
mortality and supression of growth were also all more evident in the younger
age group.  only male rats given the steroid hormone starting from day 25
showed permanent suppression of growth.
.I 663
.W
response of a serum glycoprotein to tissue injury
and necrosis
1. the response to necrosis, hyperplasia and tumour growth
a serum glycoprotein of the rat underwent a 20-fold increase during 15 days
growth of the walker tumour and this increase was not affected when the rats
were treated with terramycin.  the protein increased at the same or a greater
rate when rats were subjected to ischaemic necrosis of one kidney or of two-
thirds of the liver.  boiled kidney tissue, on the other hand, had little
effect upon the protein response, and kidney hyperplasia had none.  it is
suggested that this protein increase is a response to substances liberated from
damaged or necrotic cells.
.I 664
.W
the natural history of autoimmune
disease in nzb mice
a comparison with the pattern of human
autoimmune manifestations
all mice of the nzb/bl strain spon-
taneously develop serological and
pathological evidence of autoimmune dis-
ease during adult life.  the nzb/bl strain
was developed by dr. marianne bielschow-
sky in dunedin, new zealand, by inbreed-
ing from an outbred colony of mixed coat
color.  several inbred strains--nzb, nzc,
nzo, nzw, nzy, and others, have been
evolved in dunedin from the original col-
ony.  evidence for autoimmune disease in
the nzb strain was first reported by
bielschowsky, helyer, and howie who
found evidence of an autoimmune hemo-
lytic anemia.  the dunedin group used the
presence of agglutinins for ficin-treated red
cells as the index of the disease.
.I 665
.W
the remaining kidney in irradiated
survivors of wilms's tumor
the intravenous urograms of 10 patients
who had survived 5 years after irradiation
for wilms's tumor were studied for kidney
size and configuration.  the diseased kidney
had been removed by nephrectomy.
the remaining kidneys had been sub-
jected to varying doses of ionizing radia-
tion at the time the area of the diseased
kidney was irradiated.  in none was there
evidence of atrophy.  all were within the
range of expected normal size and most of
them were enlarged.
.I 666
.W
cellular proliferation and deoxyribonucleic acid
synthesis in compensating kidneys of mice
and the effect of food and water
restriction
compensatory enlargement of the kid-
ney occurred after unilateral nephrectomy
in mice.  fourteen days after the removal of
one kidney the surviving renal tissue                                  6
weighed 23 per cent more than single kid-
neys from sham-operated animals.  the
hyperplastic response of the cortex on the
second postoperative day was 8 times
greater than that seen in the same zone of
kidneys from sham-operated animals.  by
10 days after surgery the mitotic index of
the cortex returned to control values.  the
outer medulla also underwent hyperplasia
but only on the second day following
unilateral nephrectomy was the increase
significant.  an increase in mitotic activity
was found in the inner medulla of surviving
kidneys, but it was not statistically signifi-
cant.
both starvation for 48 hours and water
restriction for 60 hours prevented the hyper-
plastic responses in the remaining kidneys
2 days after unilateral nephrectomy.  when
water was given 48 hours after unilateral
nephrectomy (after 60 hours of water
restriction) significant increases in mitotic
activity were noted in the cortex of remain-
ing kidneys on the fourth and fifth post-
operative days.  however, even after free
access to food was allowed (after 48 hours
without food) no significant increase in
mitotic frequency of the remaining kidney
was found.
deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis in con-
trol kidneys of mice was highest in the cor-
tex and lowest in the inner medulla as
revealed by radioautographic studies fol-
lowing the injection of tritiated thymidine.
two days following removal of one kidney
the labeling index of the cortex of remaining
kidneys increased 3-fold.  no statistically
significant increases of deoxyribonucleic
acid synthesis were noted in either the outer
or inner medullary regions of the remaining
kidneys.
.I 667
.W
compensatory renal enlargement
hypertrophy versus hyperplasia
after unilateral nephrectomy in the mouse, the compensatory growth
of the remaining kidney is characterized by an increase in rna and
protein synthesis within the first hour.  dna synthesis remains un-
changed for about 18 hours and then rises to a maximum at 48 hours.  by
the end of the fifth day, when dna synthesis has passed its peak and is
in decline, cellular hyperplasia has accounted for only one-fourth of the
increase in kidney weight.  thus it is shown that cell hypertrophy is both
the primary and the predominant response in the early phase of compen-
satory renal enlargement.
.I 668
.W
cell proliferation
in experimental hydronephrosis
and compensatory renal hyperplasia
mitosis counts and autoradiographic counts of nuclei labeled with
tritiated thymidine were made in the renal cortex of male rats in which
the left ureter was ligated.  these were compared with corresponding
counts in the remaining kidney after left nephrectomy, and in sham-
operated controls 24, 48 and 72 hours after operation.  the cortex of
the kidney on the obstructed side showed a greater number of tritium-
labeled nuclei and mitotic figures than in the kidney undergoing com-
pensatory hyperplasia.  epithelial and interstitial cells responded simul-
taneously on the obstructed side, whereas in the remaining kidney after
nephrectomy, the epithelial response preceded a slight interstitial re-
sponse by 48 hours.  the contralateral kidney in rats subjected to
ureteral ligation showed no response.
we concluded that the early response of increased dna synthesis
and cell division in the obstructed kidney was not mediated by humoral
factors; it was localized and probably had a different mechanism than
the proliferative response occurring in compensatory renal hyperplasia.
.I 669
.W
renal factors in the pathogenesis of hypertension
renal arteriography and other modern diagnostic procedures have provided
the means of establishing a close relationship between high blood pressure and
renovascular disease.  many of these cases are amenable to surgical cure.  at
the present time there is no single test for the definitive diagnosis of renal
hypertension.  careful and intensive studies are mandatory in the selection of
cases suitable for surgery, since hypertension has many etiologic factors and
involves many complex and sometimes obscure mechanisms.  aortography,
intravenous urography and split-function tests are among the most important
methods for definitive diagnosis and for the planning of appropriate surgical
procedures.
at operation, the most commonly observed cause of renal arterial con-
striction in the elderly is atherosclerosis, whereas in younger patients it is
hyperplasia of the intimal and muscular coats of the renal artery and its
branches.  renovascular surgery may require a variety of technical procedures.
in the successful cases there is a striking and permanent reduction in blood
pressure.
the accuracy of blood pressure readings is emphasized, since hypertension
is usually discovered for the first time during the course of a routine
physical examination.
.I 670
.W
cell proliferation in compensatory renal growth
rats with one kidney removed showed a progressive increase in weight of the
remaining kidney over a six-week period.
autoradiographic and radiochemical studies with 3h-thymidine indicated that the
increase in new kidney cell formation was maximal forty-eight to seventy-two
hours after unilateral nephrectomy.  this early response was chiefly due to the
production of new cells by the renal cortical tubules.  normal rates of tubule
cell turnover were achieved two weeks after operation.  the glomerular tufts
contained fewer new cells and their peak production was delayed to the
one-week period with a slow decline thereafter.
rats forty-eight hours after unilateral nephrectomy were chosen as a model to
study the effect of various substances on the magnitude of new cell formation.
the number of dna-synthesising cells in the stimulated kidney was reduced by
treatment with hydrocortisone, acth, 9,10-dimethyl-1,2-benzanthracene, and
1,2-benzanthracene; the numbers were increased by the administration of
deoxycorticosterone and aldosterone.
.I 671
.W
effects of adrenalectomy on
the parathyroids in nephrectomized rats
rat parathyroids were studied both after nephrectomy and after com-
bined nephrectomy and adrenalectomy.  as early as 24 hours after
nephrectomy there were morphological indications of increased para-
thyroid activity in the form of increased glandular volume and enlarged
cell nuclei.  the corresponding changes after combined nephrectomy and
adrenalectomy were less marked and the total serum calcium was higher
than after nephrectomy only.  these observations suggest that the adrenals
could induce a change in calcium homeostasis opposite to that of the
parathyroids.
.I 672
.W
pathogenesis of polycystic kidneys
microdissection confirms our previous de-
scription of an uncommon variety of poly-
cystic kidney found only in the newborn
periods.  it is characterized by symmetrical
enlargement caused by saccular or cylindri-
cal increase in size of all collecting tubules.
the number and relative length of different
generations of collecting tubules are normal.
nephrons are present in normal numbers,
and their attachment to collecting tubules is
normal.  the pattern of the nephrons is nor-
mal except for minimal localized areas of
dilatation.  interstitial connective tissue is
not increased.  intrahepatic bile ducts are in-
variably cystic.  siblings may be affected.
we believe that in such kidneys the be-
havior of the ampullae of the branches of the
ureteral bud is normal and that secondary
hyperplasia of the interstitial portions of the
branches is responsible for the greatly in-
creased renal size.
.I 673
.W
concurrence of hyperplasia and
neoplasia of the parathyroid glands
the concurrence of parathyroid hyperplasia
and neoplasia in a group of six patients is re-
ported.  two patients had long-standing renal
disease with azotemia and hyperphosphatemia.
in both hypercalcemia developed while they
were under observation and they were found to
have parathyroid adenomas as well as hyper-
plasia of the other glands.  a third patient
followed an apparently similar course.  one pa-
tient with primary hyperparathyroidism due to a
large mediastinal adenoma displayed hyper-
plasia of other glands in association with moder-
ate renal insufficiency.  two patients with pri-
mary generalized parathyroid hyperplasia were
found to have superimposed neoplastic lesions:
multiple adenomatous nodules in one, adenocar-
cinoma in the other.
these observations add new dimensions to the
diagnosis and therapy of parathyroid disorders.
they indicate the necessity of examining all four
parathyroid areas at time of surgery.  they also
emphasize that hypercalcemia developing in
patients with chronic renal disease is a manifesta-
tion of autonomous parathyroid function.
.I 674
.W
experimentelle nierenvergroberung nach unilateraler
nephrektomie bei ratten
untersuchungen mit 3h-thymidin
in this paper it is attempted to clarify certain questions as to the mechanism
of compensatory renal hypertrophy by means of histological, cytological, and
autoradiographical examinations in nephrectomy experiments on young and grown
rats.  based on the results of this investigation the process of compensatory
renal hypertrophy must be imagined as follows:
as early as two hours after unilateral nephrectomy, a distinct increase of the
mitosis index without a simultaneous increase in dna-synthesizing cells was
observed in the remaining kidney.  it is assumed that a cell division of
polyploid cells is involved, which were in a prolonged premitotic rest phase.
after a latent period of 48 hours, the dna-synthesizing cells and dividing
cells start to increase.  the maximum of the regenerative processes is reached
between the 3rd and 4th day after nephrectomy.  twenty days after unilateral
nephrectomy, the regenerative processes are largely concluded.
all tubule sections participate in the compensatory renal hypertrophy.
although the regenerative processes are most marked in the central section,
one cannot speak of the development of an actual indifference zone in the
regenerating kidney.
in young test animals, compensatory renal hypertrophy is determined more
by mitotic cell division, in older test animals more by polyploidization
processes.
the results of these investigations provide no certain indications for the
assumption that amitotic nuclear divisions play a major part in compensatory
renal hypertrophy.
proliferation processes which in extent and localization run parallel to the
regeneration of the parenchyma, are also observed in the cells of the
connective tissue of the renal vessels.
.I 675
.W
abscopal effects of whole-body
x-irradiation on compensatory hypertrophy
of the rat kidney.
the weight and dna content of normal growing (i.e., intact), and
hypertrophying (i.e., following uninephrectomy) rat kidneys were
obtained from several hundred sprague-dawley white rats.  the
effect of whole body x irradiation with 500 rad and local irradiation
to the kidney with 1000 rad, was then determined by following the
rate and degree of hypertrophy and the dna content of the kidney.
when calculated on the basis of body surface area, a constant ratio
of kidney weight and of kidney dna was found in the normal, non-
hypertrophying kidneys of 5-12 week old rats.  after 21 days of
hypertrophy these values increased approximately 50 per cent over
normal in rats 4-6 weeks old at the time of nephrectomy.  for
animals 6-14 weeks old at the time of nephrectomy the corresponding
increase was only about 20 per cent.
following uninephrectomy and x irradiation with 1000 rad to the
exteriorized remaining kidney, 4 week old rats whose bodies were
lead-shielded during irradiation showed no body weight growth
retardation, no significant difference in the dna content of the
kidney, and a small but significant decrease in weight increment
of the hypertrophying kidney after 21 days.
rats exposed to 500 rad of x rays with the kidney shielded during
irradiation, when compared with nonirradiated controls, showed body
weight growth retardation, a reduction in the dna content of the
kidney, and a reduction in the amount of kidney hypertrophy 21 days
following uninephrectomy.  a still greater inhibition of both kidney
compensatory hypertrophy and the increase in dna content of the
kidney occurred after 500 rad whole body irradiation.
food restriction in nonirradiated 4 week old rats resulting in
body weight growth retardation, elicited a marked reduction in
kidney weight and in dna content of the hypertrophying kidney 21
days after uninephrectomy.
it is concluded that the reduction in kidney hypertrophy following
whole body x irradiation with 500 rad is due in some measure to an
abscopal or indirect effect, secondary to decreased body weight.
.I 676
.W
radiation effects renal enlargement in the mouse
three hours following unilateral
nephrectomy weanling female cf-1 mice were
subjected to local abdominal or total body
exposure to either 500 or 600 r.  other
groups were given 1350 r to half the abdomen
with and without prior nephrectomy.  signifi-
cant decreases in renal weight gain compared
to controls were obtained in the 600 r total
body group and in the locally irradiated ani-
mals given 1350 r.  when the renal weight
changes are compared on the basis of the
ratio of renal weight to body weight in per
cent, an increase from .64% to .95% is seen
in animals subjected to nephrectomy alone.
the final value in all of the irradiated and
nephrectomized groups was similar, ranging
from .93% to 1.0%.  the results suggest that
irradiation in these dose ranges does not
exert a direct inhibitory effect on renal weight
increase but it limits body weight gain which
influences kidney weight.
.I 677
.W
renal hyperplasia and neoplasia
in rats given dimethylnitrosamine
multiple foci of hyperplasia and neoplasia were induced in the kidney
of rats that had been dosed orally with dimethylnitrosamine.  the younger rats
and the male sex had a greater incidence of renal tumors.  the hyperplastic
or neoplastic lesions were classified into two groups on the basis of their
histogenesis, namely that of tubular epithelial origin and that of interstitial
cell origin.  dimethylnitrosamine is recommended as a useful chemical
compound for the study of renal carcinogenesis.
.I 678
.W
the role of age and x-irradiation on kidney
function in the mouse
female mouse kidneys show a decline with respect to age in the ability to
concentrate the urine during a 24-hour water fast.  x-irradiation early in
life has no measurable long-term effect on this process.
kidney cortex slices of old female mice can concentrate p-aminohippuric
acid against a concentration gradient equally as well as slices from young
mice.  there is no loss in this ability by cortex slices from young or old
female x-irradiated mice.
it is uncertain whether compensatory renal hypertrophy after unilateral
nephrectomy declines with age in nonirradiated mice.  x-irradiation does
cause a reduction in the degree of compensatory renal hypertrophy in the aging
mouse.  this reduction may represent a loss in the ability of kidney cells to
undergo cell division.
the administration of testosterone propionate to old mice during compen-
satory renal hypertrophy results in an increased hypertrophy.  the increase is
relatively the same for irradiated and nonirradiated mice, indicating the lack
of a long-term effect of x-irradiation to reduce the ability of a target
organ to respond to a hormone.
the over-all conclusion of this study, with respect to "radiation-induced
aging," is that x-irradiation of the female swiss mouse early in life does not
have a pronounced effect on kidney function late in life but may have a long-
term effect on those processes concerned with cell division.
.I 679
.W
hyperaldosteronism, hyperplasia of the
juxtaglomerular complex, normal
blood pressure, and dwarfism:
report of a case
a patient with the syndrome of hyperal-
dosteronism, hyperplasia of the juxtaglo-
merular complex, dwarfism, and normal
blood pressure is reported in detail.  in this
patient, the aldosterone secretion rate in-
creased significantly and the serum potas-
sium rose slightly with sodium depriva-
tion.  with a low-sodium diet urinary sodi-
um fell to zero.  spironolactone with a low-
sodium diet raised serum potassium to nor-
mal.  infusion of albumin, however, resul-
ted in a rapid increase in serum potassium
and a fall in aldosterone secretion rate.  the
unique features in this patient are the re-
sponse to albumin and the lowering of uri-
nary sodium to zero in response to a low-
sodium intake.  in all other essentials, the
case resembles the two previously reported
cases.  treatment by subtotal adrenalecto-
my was not curative.
.I 680
.W
the juxtaglomerular cells of the kidney and the
zona glomerulosa of the adrenal cortex in
the sodium losing and the hypertensive
forms of virilizing adrenal
hyperplasia
pathological and biochemical observations
are presented in two cases of virilizing ad-
renal hyperplasia: one of the sodium-losing
type and the other of the hypertensive type.
examination of the kidneys revealed hyper-
trophy of the juxtaglomerular cells in the
case exhibiting excessive sodium loss.  the
adrenal cortex showed hypertrophy of the
zona glomerulosa.  it is hypothesized that
the chronic state of sodium loss caused
changes in the intravascular compartment
which led to compensatory activity of the
juxtaglomerular cells with resultant stimula-
tion of the zona glomerulosa.
examination of the hypertensive case
(known to involve a different enzyme defi-
cit) showed hypertrophy of the zona glom-
erulosa without hypertrophy of the juxta-
glomerular cells.  the intrinsic overproduc-
tion of sodium-retaining steroids associated
with the genetic defect in this clinical form
could account for both the hypertension
and the absence of hypertrophy of the juxta-
glomerular apparatus.
.I 681
.W
studies on eperythrozoon infection in sheep
the intravenous inoculation of blood from sheep in the parasi-
taemic stage of eperythrozoon infection produced detectable
parasitaemia in recipient sheep within 7 days.  the parasitaemia
lasted from 3 to 12 weeks and was accompanied by anaemia and
occasionally by icterus.  no other symptoms developed and in a
controlled experiment on hoggs there was no significant difference
in weight gain between infected and control animals.
a concurrent attack of tick-borne fever led to the disappearance
of eperythrozoon from the circulating blood.  it is suggested that this
phenomenon may be caused by the pyrexia.
the incubation period following the inoculation of infected blood
in ten 3 to 4 week old lambs varied from 3 to 6 weeks.  in eight of
these animals the symptoms were less severe than in adult sheep, but
the two smallest lambs developed a profound anaemia and failed to
gain weight.
culture of the organism on sheep blood agar or on sheep kidney
monolayers was unsuccessful as was the attempted transmission of
the infection to mice.
the transference of keds and lice from infected to uninfected
sheep failed to transmit the infection, but a sheep was infected by the
intravenous inoculation of ground-up lice from an infected animal.
the only characteristic histopathological changes in infected
sheep were lymphoid hyperplasia of the malphigian corpuscles in the
spleen and deposition of haemosiderin in the cells of the proximal
convoluted tubules in the kidney cortex.
.I 682
.W
age differences in cellular
proliferation in rat kidneys
the hyperplastic response to unilateral ne-
phrectomy after 48 hours in the cortex and
medulla of the remaining kidneys of weanling
and young adult rats was studied by means of
autoradiography.  tritiated-thymidine, which
is destined exclusively for nucleoprotein synthe-
sis, was administered to 11 control and 11 ex-
perimental rats 4 hours prior to sacrifice.
labeled tubular cells were rare in control
tissues, especially in medulla, where the per-
centages did not differ greatly for the two age
groups.  in the cortex of controls such cells were
three times more frequent for weanling rats
than for adults.  significant increases in per-
centages of labeled cells over control levels
were found in both regions of the remaining
kidneys for both age groups.  the percentage of
increase was greater in medulla than in cortex
and most pronounced in medulla of the young
adult rats.
.I 683
.W
phospholipids of the sexual segment of the kidney of the
indian house lizard, hemidactylus
flaviviridis ruppell
the indian house lizard, hemidactylus flaviviridis breeds seas-
onally.  in a sexually mature male lizard, from october to
may of the following year, the secondary and tertiary collecting
tubules of the kidney are hypertrophied forming the sexual seg-
ment.  the development of the sexual segment is synchronous with
the testicular cycle and maximum development occurs during the
period when the testes are spermatogenically active.  the sex-
ual segment is not developed in the females in any season of the
year; it is completely regressed in males during sexual quiescence
(june and july).  injection of 4.0 mg of testosterone propionate
over two weeks stimulated the regressed sexual segment to hyper-
trophy in males during quiescence and also in females.  the
apical portions of the cells of the sexual segment are loaded
with granular secretions which are stained with baker's acid hae-
matein and phosphomolybdic acid-stannous chloride, indicating the
presence of choline - containing phospholipids.  the composi-
tion of the phospholipids of the sexual segment, which is a unique
feature of the lizards and snakes, is unknown.  this preliminary
communication describes the isolation and quantitative estimation
of phospholipids present in the sexual segment of the indian house
lizard, hemidactylus flaviviridis ruppell.
.I 684
.W
(on the erythropoietic effect of different
tissue suspensions)
the stimulating effect on erythropoiesis of regenerated liver and hyper-
trophic kidney tissue after partial hepatectomy and unilateral nephrectomy
respectively was studied in the rat by means of the erythrocyte count, haemo-
globin determination, reticulocyte count and 59fe utilization.  the
reticulocyte count and 59fe utilization increased significantly after treatment
with normal liver and renal tissue and more strongly after regenerated liver
and hypertrophic kidney tissue.  the same effect was seen after treatment
with the sera of rats which had undergone partial hepatectomy or unilateral
nephrectomy.
.I 685
.W
hemihypertrophy and medullary sponge kidney
congenital hemihypertrophy is an over-
growth of one side of the body which is
associated with an asymmetry beyond the ex-
pected range.  it is to be distinguished from
hemiatrophy in which atrophy or withering of
one half of the body has occurred, usually be-
cause of neurological lesions.
this condition of hemihypertrophy, though
rare, is very frequently associated with other
congenital abnormalities.  these include several
in the urogenital tract, such as hypospadias,
cryptorchidism, unilateral renal hypertrophy
and an increased incidence of wilms' tumour.
.I 686
.W
chemical aspects of compensatory renal hypertrophy
the effect of unilateral nephrectomy on the size and composition of the
remaining kidney has been investigated in rats.  in normal rats the right
kidney is, on the average, significantly heavier than the left and has a
higher total content of dna and rna.  the 2 kidneys have almost identical
ratios of rna/dna and protein/dna.  after unilateral nephrectomy the surviving
kidney increases steadily in wet and dry weight for the 1st 4 days after the
operation.  this is accompanied by a much slower increase in total dna
content and by a dramatic increase in rna/dna ratio.
the rna/dna ratio in kidney is also affected by diet, being higher on a
high-protein than on a low-protein intake.  moreover, the rise in rna/dna
ratio that follows unilateral nephrectomy is greater in animals fed a
high-protein diet.  the changes in kidney weight and in total contents of dna,
rna, protein, and lipid phosphorus resulting from the feeding of a high-protein
diet were found to be of approximately the same magnitude as those in the
remaining kidney 4 days after unilateral nephrectomy.  the rna/dna and
protein/dna ratios are also greater in rats fed a diet containing 10% urea,
but the increase is much less than that in the remaining kidney after
unilateral nephrectomy.
.I 687
.W
the antidiuretic mechanism of hydrochlorothia-
zide in the treatment of diabetes insipidus
the changes in water and electro-
lyte balance during hydrochlorothiazide
therapy in 2 patients with vasopressin-
deficient diabetes insipidus were studi-
ed.  in 1 case, under fixed daily so-
dium intake, the urinary sodium excre-
tion markedly increased on the first day
of treatment, but the urinary volume
began to fall on the second day and per-
sisted low for 3 days after discontinua-
tion of the drug.  in the other case the
urinary volume markedly decreased
when the daily sodium intake was strict-
ly limited.  it further decreased on
hydrochlorothiazide therapy but after
sodium intake was restored it returned
to the pretreatment level despite con-
tinued use of the drug.
the antidiuretic action of hydro-
chlorothiazide in the treatment of dia-
betes insipidus is believed to be related
to the sodium depletion state of the body
brought about by increased output or
decreased intake of sodium.  sodium
and water reabsorption in the proximal
convoluted tubules in the kidney in-
creases and the amount of glomerular
filtrate reaching the distal convoluted
tubules decreases.  thus the final
urinary volume falls.
.I 688
.W
the action of oral diuretics
in diabetes insipidus
chronic administration of chlorothiazide and
other thiazide analogues in diabetes insipidus
results in a striking reduction in urinary volume
with increase in urinary osmolality.  this curious
antidiuretic action was first described by
crawford & kennedy (1959), and though it has
since been widely confirmed in both the pituitary
and nephrogenic forms of the disease, its precise
mechanism remains obscure.  a number of
investigators have sought to explain the phenom-
enon entirely on the basis of the renal actions of
these drugs (earley & orloff 1962, goodman &
carter 1962), whilst others have contended that
abatement of polyuria may be secondary to a
central effect of the thiazides in decreasing thirst
(robson & lambie 1962, skadhauge 1963).
over the past two years, we have conducted
detailed in-patient studies of the action of
various diuretic drugs of the thiazide and other
series in a group of 7 patients with pituitary
diabetes insipidus.
.I 689
.W
investigations into the thiazide-induced antidiuresis in
patients with diabetes insipidus
plasma sodium, osmolality and serum
chloride, together with creatinine clear-
ance, were studied before and during
thiazide treatment of 7 patients with
diabetes insipidus.
the diuresis was reduced by 28-39%.
the urine osmolality was increased by
7-128%.  an average decrease in plasma
sodium of 4 meq/i, in plasma osmolality
of 21 mosm/kg, and in serum chloride of
8 meq/i was observed.  only in one pa-
tient was the creatinine clearance re-
duced significantly.  the thirst-feeling was
reduced even from the first day of treat-
ment.  the diuresis was not minimal until
the third to fourth day.  if the diuresis was
corrected for the extra electrolyte ex-
cretion initiated by the thiazide, the
antidiuresis was found to be operating to
the full extent even on the first day of
treatment.
it is concluded that the antidiuresis is
mainly secondary to the natriuresis and to
a certain degree due to a decreased thirst-
feeling; but there seems also to be a direct
renal action, involving at least a reduc-
tion of the glomerular filtration rate.  a
pronounced antidiuresis was found by a
water deprivation test after thiazide
treatment in one patient.
.I 690
.W
salt and water
the antidiuretic effect of thiazides is thus the
result of the induced sodium deficit.  the fall in
serum osmolality may be contributory by
reducing thirst.  as depletion of body sodium will
be self-limiting the major hazard to the use of
thiazides is potassium depletion.  treatment of
patients with vasopressin insufficiency type of
diabetes insipidus with thiazides is only indicated
for those who are intolerant of hormone replace-
ment.  in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus thiazides
have a more important therapeutic application.
.I 691
.W
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus
chlorothiazide has been found of value in
establishing and maintaining adequate hydra-
tion in some patients; its exact mechanism of
action is not known.  the antidiuretic effects
of chlorothiazide and its analogues have been
studied in six patients with ndi, two of
whom were infants less than six months of
age.  dehydrated infants showed a dramatic
response to treatment.  with those unable to
achieve an optimal fluid intake prior to treat-
ment, the initial beneficial response was asso-
ciated with an increased fluid intake.  follow-
ing this initial antidiuretic response, a vari-
able degree of "escape" or resistance to the
action of the drug commonly occurred.  de-
spite the unpredictability of a prolonged anti-
diuretic response, a therapeutic trial of chloro-
thiazide in ndi seems warranted if diet alone
is not sufficient to maintain hydration.  it must
be remembered, however, that this drug is po-
tentially toxic.
.I 692
.W
fluid and electrolyte metabolism in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus
the body fluid volumes have been fol-
lowed in two infants with nephrogenic
diabetes insipidus.  without treatment both
patients had a low extracellular fluid
volume (ecv) and a normal to low-
normal total body water (tbw).  following
thiazide therapy (case 1) and during a
fluid deprivation test (case 2) a further
reduction of ecv and tbw was found.
untreated both patients revealed a se-
vere hypernatriemia without any increase
in the urinary aldosterone excretion.
the first patient had a cerebral atro-
phy and a rightsided hydronephrosis, a
higher diuresis and a lower concentration
capacity was found on this side.  the
patient was treated continuously with
thiazide.  when an ordinary house diet
was given this drug could only maintain
normal electrolytemia in combination
with spirolactone.  a considerable increase
in height and psychic development took
place during this combined treatment.
it is noted, that nephrogenic diabetes
insipidus may be present in infants with
unexplained fever and vomiting in the
absence of polydipsia and polyuria.  the
urine may even be hypertonic.
.I 693
.W
diuretics in pediatric practice
clinical notes and comments
with the development of more and more
potent oral diuretics in recent years, these
drugs which were once looked upon as being
of only limited usefulness in pediatrics are
now receiving clinical application.  they per-
mit a new approach to the management of
edematous states.  that most of them can be
given orally is a significant advantage, par-
ticularly when coupled with their relative lack
of toxicity.  although the number of patients
in the pediatric age range who require these
agents is relatively small, they are valuable
adjuncts in the management of chronic renal
disease, refractory heart failure, and hyper-
tension.  this discussion reviews their pharma-
cology and clinical indications.
.I 694
.W
the role of aldosterone and vasopressin in the postural
changes in renal excretion in normal subjects
and patients with idiopathic edema
the effects of the upright posture
(leisurely walking for 2 hours) on half-
hourly urine volume, and excretion of
sodium and creatinine were studied in
13 normal subjects and 13 patients with
idiopathic edema, while they drank 150
or 300 ml. of 0.14 per cent sodium
chloride solution every half hour.  when
the 2 hours of walking were compared
with a preceding recumbent period of
4 hours, both groups were found to show
a significant antidiuresis upright.  the
administration of ethanol during the last
half hour of recumbency abolished the
fall in urine flow and in free water clear-
ance during the first hour of walking in
the normal subjects and significantly re-
duced this fall in the patients with
edema.  sodium excretion in the normal
subjects was slightly but not significantly
lower when upright than when recum-
bent, but in the edematous patients was
significantly lower when upright and fell
progressively over the 2 hour period.  ad-
ministration of spironolactone or d-
amphetamine increased sodium excretion
during recumbency in both groups but
increased sodium excretion upright only
in the edematous patients to equal that
of the normal subjects.  creatinine excre-
tion was not changed in either group by
posture or drug therapy.  similar studies
were performed on 5 patients with un-
treated diabetes insipidus and on 6 pa-
tients with adrenal insufficiency treated
with hydrocortisone alone.  lack of al-
dosterone (in adrenal insufficiency) did
not increase the amount of sodium ex-
creted above that of normal subjects in
recumbency and did not prevent the oc-
currence of significant sodium retention
in the upright posture.  however, lack
of adh (in diabetes insipidus) delayed
the antidiuresis upright for 30 minutes.
the results indicate that adh release
is probably responsible for the reduction
in urine volume during the first 30 min-
utes after assuming the upright posture,
but not thereafter.  the excessive magni-
tude of the orthostatic antidiuresis in
idiopathic edema probably results from
a cause other than adh release, since it
is not completely overcome by ethanol.
reduced na excretion during 2 hours in
the upright posture can occur in the
absence of circulating aldosterone, but
the abnormal magnitude of the na re-
tention in the patients with idiopathic
edema probably results from hyperal-
dosteronism.
.I 695
.W
the use and mode of action of ethacrynic acid
in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus
the use of diuretic agents in the treatment
of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus had been re-
ported to result in decreased urine volume
and decreased clearance of free water.  a
study of the use of ethacrynic acid, a potent
saluretic agent, was instituted in patients
with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in an
attempt to achieve a significant antidiuretic
response while allowing a liberal sodium diet.
intravenous ethacrynic acid resulted in de-
creased urine volume, decreased clearance of
free water and decreased rpf and gfr.
prolonged oral administration of ethacrynic
acid promoted a significant antidiuretic re-
sponse when the daily sodium intake was
limited to 60 meq.  the effect of ethacrynic
acid on renal function, potassium and chlo-
ride excretion, and uric acid metabolism are
discussed.
.I 696
.W
the treatment of pituitary responsive
diabetes insipidus
in evaluating therapy in diabetes insipidus, it is important to note we
are altering only ten per cent of the reabsorption function of the kidney.
the kidney function in a case of diabetes insipidus is as efficient in its
activity as are biological tests.  the purpose of therapy is patient
convenience, economy, and normal function in society.  the diabetes insipidus
itself does not alter the life span, however, secondary factors may introduce
it into a health problem.
lysyl-8-vasopressin nasal spray is effective, offers a maximum of conve-
nience, and has produced no untoward reactions.
it is, as expected, ineffective in the treatment of extrapituitary (pituitary
unresponsive) diabetes insipidus.
.I 697
.W
antidiuretic effect of hydrochlorothiazide
in diabetes insipidus
and ch'iuan-lu
12 cases of diabetes insipidus
were studied during hydrochlorothia-
zide therapy under a fixed diet.  the
symptoms, blood pressure, urinary
volume, blood and urinary electrolytes,
plasma volume, electrocardiogram and
hypertonic saline intravenous drip test
were compared before and after treat-
ment.
a daily dose of 100-150 mg
brought down the urinary volume to
about 50% of the pretreatment value.
the initial antidiuretic effect was noted
8 hours after medication and the
maximal effect after the fourth or fifth
day.  owing to the kaluretic action of
the drug, 2-4 gm of potassium salt was
also given each day.  satisfactory re-
sults were obtained with dietary sodium
ion at not more than 200 meq daily, but
ingestion of excessive table salt fre-
quently diminished or even destroyed
the therapeutic effect.
the physical signs, blood pres-
sure and ecg were essentially un-
changed and the plasma volumes were
altered after treatment.  the hyper-
tonic saline test was improved in some
of the patients.
low salt syndrome was fre-
quently encountered as the therapy
continued over 1 month.  but this and
even secondary failure could be pre-
vented by timely use of intermittent or
alternative regimen.
the therapeutic mechanism,
indications and side effects of the drug
were briefly discussed.  the drug might
possibly act through the mechanism of
salt depletion, contraction of extracel-
lular fluid volume and decrease of renal
glomerular filtrate, and in consequence
urinary volume decreases and thirst is
alleviated.
.I 698
.W
the effect of hydrochlorothiazide on water intake
and plasma osmolality in diabetes insipidus in
the rat
a fall in plasma osmolality accompanied the reduction of urine volume in
rats with hypothalamic diabetes insipidus, given hydrochlorothiazide and an
otherwise normal diet.  the plasma concentration was not reduced with a
high sodium intake, although urine volume still fell.  normal rats and hypo-
thalamic obese rats increased their water turnover after hydrochlorothiazide,
yet their plasma concentration fell.  moreover the antidiuretic response to
vasopressin, which is purely renal, was also accompanied by plasma dilution;
although it is self-evident that rats which drink less are less thirsty, the
reduction in thirst after hydrochlorothiazide may not be a direct result of the
change in plasma osmolality.
as previously shown in patients (kennedy and hill, 1963) a high sodium
intake increased free water clearance in diabetes insipidus but did not
interfere with the reduction of polyuria by hydrochlorothiazide, whereas a high
potassium intake reduced free water clearance and prevented any effect of the
drug on urine volume.
.I 699
.W
antidiuretic properties of chlorothiazide
in diabetes insipidus dogs
chlorothiazide was found to decrease
urine volume and increase urine con-
centration in diabetes insipidus dogs.
there was no change in gfr, rpf,
tmpah, plasma volume, extracellular
fluid or total body water.  the one con-
sistent altered function was a decrease
in "free water" clearance.  diazoxide and
mercuhydrin were not antidiuretic.  it is
believed that the antidiuretic action is
dependent on the chlorothiazide-induced
saluresis.  although the mechanism of
this antidiuresis has not been clearly de-
fined, it seems best explained by postu-
lating a decrease in filtrate reaching the
distal nephron (giving a decreased final
urine volume) coupled with inhibition of
solute reabsorption in the distal tubule
(preventing the selective reabsorption of
solute in the distal tubule that is nor-
mally seen, accounting for the increase
in urine concentration).  the possible
role of the mineralocorticoids in the
antidiuretic response to chlorothiazide
therapy was investigated in diabetes in-
sipidus and adrenalectomized dogs.  ad-
ministration of sodium-retaining steroids
to diabetes insipidus dogs did not re-
produce the urinary changes associated
with chlorothiazide therapy.  in addition,
the antidiuretic response to chlorothia-
zide was not altered by adrenalectomy
or spironolactone administration.  there-
fore, the presence of the sodium-retain-
ing steroids are not essential for the anti-
diuretic response of chlorothiazide in
diabetes insipidus.
.I 700
.W
stable strontium in human bone: geographical and age
differences in the united kingdom and their
correlation with levels of strontium-90
a re-assessment has been made of published data of other workers on sr and
90sr in human bone.  in different parts of great britain the mean ratio of
stable sr to ca in adult human bones ranged
from 240 to 475ug/g.  extreme values
were found even as close as 40 miles apart (carlisle v. westmorland).
perinatal levels of stable sr were correlated with adult levels.  an estimate
of placental discrimination may be derived from the ratio, perinatal level:
adult level of about 0.7.
the concentration of stable sr in bones of children from 2 to 5 years old or
more was not demonstrably different from that of adults except in one area,
carlisle.  with the striking exception of london and south-east england the
change from perinatal to adult levels occurred in the 2nd year of life: there
was no particular change during the first 9 months or so.  in london and
south-east england the pattern of change with age was quite different: there
was a progressive rise in sr level from shortly after birth to the end of the
1st year by which time adult levels were reached.  it is concluded that
geographical differences need to be taken into account when making
physiological deductions about turnover of bone salt from changes with age in
the level of stable sr.
when children in the south-east of england and the rest of the united kingdom
were compared, there seemed to be a broad inverse correlation between levels of
stable sr and of 90sr.
detailed analysis of perinatal results from one area suggested that the level
of stable sr in bone was somewhat higher in summer than in winter and somewhat
higher in anatomically normal babies than in babies dying with gross congenital
defects.  90sr showed the seasonal change only.
.I 701
.W
fibrin and thrombosis in the central nervous system
in children with particular reference to
congenital hydrocephalus
while rare metabolic and degenerative diseases of
the central nervous system in children are reported
at great length, the much commoner diseases
relating to vascular incidents are rarely discussed.
only those aspects of disease of the central
nervous system related to thrombosis and the
deposition of fibrin will be discussed here; diseases
related to general vasculitis and aneurysm are
omitted.  the conditions discussed here fall into two
main categories: first, the presence of thrombosis in
small blood vessels or in the large superficial veins
draining the brain, and second, the deposition of
fibrin either in the ventricles or on the membranes
overlying the brain in association with thrombotic
lesions, haemorrhage, or infiltration.
.I 702
.W
hydrocephalus due to unrecognized cerebellar
astrocytoma treated by ventriculoatrial
shunt for four years
a case of a 9-year-old girl is presented in whom prolonged palliation of signs
of increased intracranial pressure, presumed to be due to aqueductal
obstruction, was achieved by means of a ventriculoatrial shunt.  four years
after placement of the shunt, signs of a cerebellar mass became apparent.
the neoplasm, a cystic astrocytoma, was subsequently totally resected and
the shunt was removed.  air studies demonstrating diminution of ventricular
size within this four year period are compared.
.I 703
.W
hydrocephalus
the problem of hydrocephalus, formerly a hopeless one, has in recent years
begun to yield to clinical research.  the indications for the new forms of
treatment, and their drawbacks, are clearly delineated in this discussion by a
leading authority in the field.
.I 704
.W
a case of unilateral hydrocephalus secondary to occlusion of
one foramen of monro
a unique case of unilateral obstructive hydro-
cephalus secondary to occlusion of one foramen of
monro by gliomatosis in a 3-day-old infant is
reported.
.I 705
.W
calcification within congenital aneurysms
of the vein of galen
thirty-one cases of aneurysm of the
vein of galen had been reported previ-
ously.  calcification within the wall of the
aneurysm was visible on plain skull roent-
genograms in 6 of this number.  the present
communication describes an additional
case in which calcification of the aneurysm
was discovered at the age of 9 years, the
youngest patient heretofore reported.
.I 706
.W
ventriculo-venous shunts for infantile hydrocephalus
a review of 48 hydrocephalic patients
treated with atrioventricular shunts during a
5-year period has been presented.  we have
discussed function of the shunt, complica-
tions of the procedure, and revisions neces-
sitated by nonfunctioning.  the overall 75
per cent survival rate and 14.3 per cent in-
fection rate is comparable to that in other
series.  the major cause of death in our pa-
tients has been infection.
our experience to date supports the ob-
servation that spontaneous arrest of the hy-
drocephalic process does not occur once a
ventriculo-venous shunt has been estab-
lished.
meticulous introduction of a ventriculo-
venous shunt appears to be the present treat-
ment of choice for patients with severe hy-
drocephalus.  results are only satisfactory
when the patients are carefully followed
and complications recognized and treated
promptly.
.I 707
.W
congenital malformations of c.n.s.
it seems that only a small proportion of malformations of
the central nervous system can be explained in simple genetical
terms and that most are dependent, to some extent at least,
on environmental factors.  the nature of these has yet to be
determined.  dr. williamson found that the maternal aunts,
uncles, and cousins of her index cases of anencephalus and
spina bifida were more frequently affected than the paternal
relatives were.  she suggested that mothers of affected
children had some genetic factor which modifies the intra-
uterine environment and thus predisposes the embryo to these
malformations.  such a hypothesis opens up interesting
possibilities, but before accepting it one would have to be
satisfied that the higher incidence in maternal relatives is
not merely due to the fact that the history is obtained in
most cases from the mother.
.I 708
.W
experimental studies on cerebrospinal
fluid flow
a mixed suspension of kaolin and lyco-
podium was injected into the cisterna magna
of dogs.  blockade of csf space was produced
successfully in 63 of 75 dogs; in 48 of the 63,
ventricular dilatation of more than interme-
diate degree was observed.
in these hydrocephalic dogs experimental
shunting was performed either between the
lateral ventricle and the lumbar cistern or be-
tween the unilateral lateral ventricle and the
contralateral cerebral subarachnoid space.  uni-
directional, steady csf flow averaged 0.15 ml. per
hour in the cases of the former shunting,
and the flow averaged 0.25 ml. per hour in the
cases of the latter shunting.
csf flow rate from the ventricle toward the
cerebral subarachnoid space was larger when
intraventricular pressure was higher.  this in-
crease in flow rate parallel to increasing pres-
sure probably results from an increase in csf
absorption.  there seems to be an upper limit
of the flow rate as the pressure is raised.
transient reflux of csf flow was induced by
jugular or abdominal compression.
following intravenous administration of hy-
pertonic solutions, csf flow rate decreased
parallel to the fall of csf pressure and re-
gained the original value as the pressure was
recovered.  when the pressure fell as low as
50 mm. of water the flow almost stopped.
.I 709
.W
the dandy-walker syndrome
the dandy-walker syndrome is a specific
morbid entity in which the fourth ventricle
is grossly dilated and there is a congenital
malformation of the cerebellar vermis.  it is
nearly always associated with atresia of the
foramen of magendie, and in many cases with
atresia of the foramina of luschka also.  the
lateral and third ventricles are usually dilated.
figure 1 illustrates a specimen of the condition.
most cases present in infancy, but others are
discovered in childhood and in adult life.  the
oldest patient recorded to have had this anomaly
was aged 59 years.  the first recognized case
was published by dandy and blackfen in 1914,
but the best early description of the condition
is that of taggart and walker (1944), who
concluded that the cerebellar lesions were
consequent upon the atresia of the foramen of
magendie.  in 1954 benda proposed the term
"dandy-walker syndrome".
.I 710
.W
a probable epidemic of congenital
hydrocephalus in 1940-1941
a peak in the incidence of congenital hydrocephalus in 1940-41 is described;
reasons are given for believing it to be a genuine phenomenon, though it is too
late to find the cause.
epidemics of malformations are to be detected promptly only if the incidence
of malformations in a defined population is studied continuously; and for some
epidemics the population studied must be very large indeed.
.I 711
.W
functional craniology: an aid in
interpreting roentgenograms
of the skull
analysis of the form of the skull is
facilitated by considering it to be composed
of a number of functional components.  for
the roentgenologist's purposes, division into
the facial or somatic skeleton and the neu-
ral skeleton is valuable, as is the recognition
of three functionally separate portions
within each calvarial bone: the inner table,
the diploe and the outer table.
the base of the skull is the only por-
tion that is preformed in cartilage.  this ac-
counts for the unusual appearance of the
skull in achondroplasia.  in addition, the
base apparently is more closely related to
facial and general somatic growth than to
neural growth.
calvarial bone forms directly from
membrane within the cerebral capsule.
consequently, the size and shape of the cal-
varia directly reflect the form of the grow-
ing neural mass.
the inner table of the calvaria at all
ages is intimately related to the dura mater
and directly reflects the form of the dura
mater.  consequently, the inner table re-
flects the form of the arachnoid mater and,
usually, of the brain as well.
the outer table of the calvaria serves
not only to protect the brain but also to
anchor many of the intrinsic and extrinsic
muscles of the skull.  its form, particularly
in thick-skulled mammals such as the pig,
is determined more by the demands of these
muscles and of the scalp than by the form
of the brain.
the principal function of the diploe
is to form a lightweight yet rigid separation
of the two osseous tables.  in addition, it
serves as a site of hematopoiesis; for this
reason it may tend to a specific volume at a
given age.
the calvarial sutures oppose separa-
tion of the bones of the calvaria while al-
lowing relative motion between them.
when the calvarial bones are passively car-
ried apart with the expanding cerebral cap-
sule by the growth of the neural mass, their
areas are increased by the deposition of
bone in the suture margins.  the sutures,
however, do not function as epiphyses and
have no innate growth potential: removal
of a suture does not disturb final skull form.
because the calvaria represents ossi-
fication of the cerebral capsule, it is small
when the neural mass is small.  the de-
formity of the skull and the secondary
changes that occur in the air sinuses and
the diploe can be explained in terms of
the functional cranial components.  the op-
posite changes occur when the neural mass
is abnormally large.
the correlation between skull size and
intelligence is only fair.  the presence of a
brain of distinctly abnormal size, however,
may be inferred from plain roentgeno-
grams of the skull.
premature closure of the cranial su-
tures may be due to an abnormal form of
the cranial base and possibly of the primi-
tive chondrocranium that precedes it.  the
abnormality is mediated through the dural
fiber tracts that underlie the major cal-
varial sutures.
.I 712
.W
hydrocephalus: changes in formation and absorption
of cerebrospinal fluid within the
cerebral ventricles
formation, flow and absorption of
cerebrospinal fluid were measured in normal
and progressively hydrocephalic dogs by
steady-state studies during ventricular per-
fusion.  the formation of cerebrospinal fluid
was found to be constant, independent of
hydrostatic pressure, and unaffected by the
development of hydrocephalus.  the normal
dog produced 0.016 ml. cerebrospinal fluid
/min. in the lateral ventricles, 0.011 ml. cere-
brospinal fluid/min. in the 4th ventricle and
0.20 ml. cerebrospinal fluid/min. in the sub-
arachnoid space.  the intraventricular forma-
tion of fluid was calculated to be 0.24 ml.
cerebrospinal fluid/min./gm. of choroid
plexus, and 0.3x10-3 ml. cerebrospinal fluid
/min./cm.2 of ependymal surface.
absorption of cerebrospinal fluid was
found to take place within the ventricles as
well as in the subarachnoid spaces.  the re-
sistance to absorption of cerebrospinal fluid
in the normal ventricle was much higher than
in the hydrocephalic ventricle.  the decrease
in resistance occurred as the ventricular
volume increased and the ependyma became
flattened so that in chronic hydrocephalus
the resistance was not significantly different
than in the normal dog.  the theory of re-
stricted diffusion was applied to the data to
calculate the diffusive permeabilities of crea-
tinine and urea, and from this the mean pore
radius within the ventricle.
using formation of cerebrospinal fluid
and data on absorption, the hydrocephalic
animals could not be distinguished from the
normal with sufficient accuracy to suggest
using this as a clinical test.  the reason for
this is that intraventricular pressure has
always been considered as if it were constant
when, in fact, it is changing constantly.  the
problem of ventricular enlargement concerns
the ability of the craniospinal contents to
adjust to and absorb the small but very rapid
changes in intracranial contents that occur
with each beat of the pulse.
.I 713
.W
dural sinus pressure
in normal and hydrocephalic dogs
simultaneous measurement of cerebro-
spinal fluid pressure (csfp) and venous
pressure in the anterior (ssvp) and poste-
rior sagittal sinus (tvp) has demonstrated
that in the normal dog the mean pressures are
related as follows: csfp>ssvp>tvp.
the statistical relationship between the pres-
sures has shown a poor correlation of ssvp
and tvp with changes in csfp.  on the
other hand, in the hydrocephalic dog, ssvp
rises to meet csfp and is related to fluid
pressure in a 1:1 fashion.  this could be ex-
pected to cause a "non venting" of acute
changes of csfp and a decrease in fluid ab-
sorption.  it is postulated that the mechanism
of ssvp elevation is a partial occlusion of
the sinus.
.I 714
.W
intraventricular papilloma
a case of intraventricular papilloma of the left
lateral ventricle is reported.  craniotomy was
performed and removal of the tumor was ac-
complished without incident.
the literature is reviewed.
an unusual although perhaps relatively unim-
portant observation in the reported case was that
for four or five days postoperatively the patient,
a 17-month-old female, kept her head tilted to
the right but at the time she left the hospital she
was holding it erect and unsupported and was
sustaining weight satisfactorily on both feet.
.I 715
.W
five-year comparative study of hydrocephalus in
children with and without operation (113 cases)
on the basis of a 5-year study of 113 hy-
drocephalic children of whom 65 were oper-
ated on early with ventriculo-atrial shunting
and 48 were not operated on, all of them hav-
ing been studied periodically in a similar
manner to determine mortality, morbidity,
intelligence, and related factors, the follow-
ing conclusions are justified:
the program in which shunting opera-
tions were done apparently gives significant
advantages to the children over the program
in which no shunting operations were done
(based on life-table data projected from birth
to 10 years)
survival: 61.8 per cent as compared to
22.2 per cent;
number of competent children (i.q. of
75 or better): 33.8 per cent vs. 5.5 per
cent;
number of noncompetitive children
(i.q. below 75): 27.6 per cent vs. 16.7
per cent.
the major cause of death and morbid-
ity in both groups is infection.
in the operative group, morbidity
associated with the shunting procedure is
related to obstruction of the shunt and
septicemia.  the early occlusions show a
correlation with abnormal, inflammatory
type of spinal fluid being shunted into the
blood stream.  the late obstructions are
associated with mechanical breakage of the
shunt or factors of growth causing retraction
of the cardiac end from the atrium.  prompt
re-establishment of a functioning shunt has
been possible in all instances.  periodic follow-
up examinations, irrespective of symptoms,
have proved invaluable in early recognition
of malfunctioning shunts.  septicemia usually
required removal of the shunt.
from the program of periodic evalua-
tions, including "bubble" ventriculograms,
studies of clearance of risa, and psycho-
logical testings, correlations showed:
intellectual ability seemed associated
with width of cerebral mantle;
width of cerebral mantle in hydrocepha-
lus decreases with ventricular pressures
of 120 or over; it increases with pres-
sures less than this;
prolonged shunting of cerebrospinal
fluid can give dramatic increase in
width of cerebral mantle, apparently
irrespective of basic etiology of the
hydrocephalus;
intellectual capacity could not be cor-
related with the basic etiology of the
hydrocephalus, but did correlate in-
versely with duration of increased in-
tracranial pressure.
the many etiologies of hydrocephalus
require large numbers of patients in each
group for thorough evaluation.  factors
favoring such studies should be carried out in
medical centers where appropriate disciplines
can study in depth.  prevention should be the
ultimate goal.
in the operative group, only 1 patient
compensated his hydrocephalic process and
no single patient demonstrated "arrest" of or
recovery from the basic hydrocephalus-pro-
ducing process in spite of numerous attempts
to demonstrate this.  this might imply a
necessity for life-long shunting of cerebro-
spinal fluid in these cases.
.I 716
.W
hydrocephalus
any present day definition of
hydrocephalus is very loose.  the
authors would rather adopt the
concept that hydrocephalus is an
abnormal condition characterized
by excessive amount of cerebrospi-
nal fluid with or without enlarge-
ment of the head.
the most common cause of
hydrocephalus is arachnoiditis fol-
lowed by congenital anomalies.  a
neoplasm is a rare cause.
the ideal surgical procedure
is the placement of a ventriculo-
atrial shunt, using either pudenz
or halter valves.  where these
valves cannot be availed of the
choice is between a conservative
waiting with medical support and
ventricular tapping from the older
surgical shunting procedures, like,
ventriculo-peritoneal, choroidoplex-
ectomy, thecal-fimbia, subarach-
noid-ureteral, and others.
.I 717
.W
recognition and treatment of hydrocephalus following
spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage
eight adult patients with hydrocephalus
secondary to spontaneous subarachnoid hem-
orrhage have been presented with a discus-
sion of diagnosis and treatment.  a number of
possible mechanisms for the development of
ventricular dilatation in this condition have
been advanced and pathological data have
been presented in 2 cases.
.I 718
.W
congenital malformations.
clinical and community considerations
two of the most significant medical
events of the century, the epidemic of
post-rubella anomalies in australia
during 1940 and 1941 and the pan-
demic of thalidomide embryopathies
in europe and elsewhere during 1960
and 1961, have demonstrated clearly
the importance of monitoring programs
to record the occurrence of congenital
malformations at group (for example,
hospital) and community (especially
city) levels.  the principle of report-
ing malformations and utilizing the
data for service programs or, better
still, for prevention, is not new, but
the methodical use of vital statistics
in a scientifically constructed surveil-
lance system is new.  so also is the
joint endeavor on the part of clinicians,
public health workers and basic scien-
tists to reconstruct an epidemiology of
deformity on the basis of time, place,
person distributions of malformations.
a primary need has been for stand-
ardized methods of classifying and
reporting congenital malformations.
.I 719
.W
the family history of spina bifida cystica
the family histories of 722 infants who
were born with spina bifida cystica were
studied.
the index cases were referred for sur-
gical treatment and were not selected in any
way from the genetic point of view.
intensive inquiries were made to ob-
tain a complete family pedigree, including
a prospective follow-up of siblings born after
the index case.
of 1,256 siblings 85 or 6.8% had gross
malformation of the central nervous system:
spina bifida cystica in 54, anencephaly in 22,
and uncomplicated hydrocephalus in 9.
of 306 children born after the index
case 25 (8%) or 1 in 12 were affected.
there was a progressive increase in
multiple cases in the family with increasing
family size.  in sibships of five or more, mul-
tiple cases occurred in 24.1%.
in 118 families cases of gross malfor-
mation of the central nervous system were
known to have occurred among members of
the family other than siblings.  cases oc-
curred in three generations.
it is possible that spina bifida cystica
might be a recessively inherited condition.
.I 720
.W
pulmonary vascular changes complicating
ventriculovascular shunting for hydrocephalus
a patient is described in whom pulmonary hypertension and cor
pulmonale were noted 3 years after placement of a ventriculovascular
shunting apparatus for treatment of hypdrocephalus.  in addition,
the histologic sections of lung tissue obtained from 65 patients with hy-
drocephalus who died at various intervals following placement of a
ventriculovascular shunting apparatus were reviewed with regard to vas-
cular alterations.  a high incidence of "old" and "multiple" pulmonary
vascular lesions was found in this group compared to the incidence
in control subjects.  this difference can be attributed to the operative
procedure.  the lesions in postmortem material were not
widespread and did not suggest the diagnosis
of pulmonary hypertension on purely histologic grounds.
.I 721
.W
etiology of trypan blue induced antenatal
hydrocephalus in the albino rat
wistar strain albino rats were injected with 1 cm3 of a 1% solution
of trypan blue.  three types of dye were used: matheson, coleman and bell,
chroma-gesellschaft and a highly purified sample.  the dyes were injected on
days 6, 7, and 8 of gestation.  fetuses were excised from days 16 through 20,
fixed, decalcified where necessary, embedded in paraffin, serially sectioned
and stained.  newborn young were treated similarly.  chroma-gesellschaft
trypan blue was without reproductive or teratogenic effect at the above doses.
increasing the dose did not increase the teratogenicity but did yield a
decrease in litter size.  both matheson, coleman and bell trypan blue and the
purified sample were teratogenic.  the most frequent neural defect observed
was hydrocephalus.  serial sections of the newborn hydrocephalics showed an
occluded or extremely tenotic aqueduct of sylvius in 31 of 33 sectioned
animals.  the fetuses collected from days 18 through 20 also had occluded or
stenotic aqueducts if hydrocephalic.  aqueductal stenosis or occlusion was
present in 17-day-old fetuses, but hydrocephalus was not conclusively
demonstrated at this age.  sixteen-day-old fetuses did not have aqueductal
occlusion in any of those examined, but stenosis was evident.  it is concluded
that the defect predisposing to hydrocephalus in the young of trypan blue
treated rats of this strain is aqueductal stenosis or occlusion.
.I 722
.W
bilateral papilloma of the choroid plexus
a rare case of bilateral papilloma of the choroid plexus
in a five-and-a-half-year old hydrocephalic girl is pre-
sented.
the tumor encountered at autopsy was not suspected
during life, the existing hydrocephalus being attributed
to either cytomegalic inclusion disease or toxoplasmosis.
after post mortem examination, it was evident that
the hydrocephalus was due to two factors; hypersecretion
from the tumor itself, and obstruction at the level of the
sylvian aqueduct by a delicate, tense, translucent mem-
brane.
an interesting and uncommon additional feature of
this case was the presence, within the choroidal papillo-
ma, of well-formed haversian bone.
a plea is made for regularly considering papilloma of
the choroid plexus in the differential diagnosis of hydro-
cephalus in children, for here, early diagnosis and treat-
ment might conceivably result in total cure.
.I 723
.W
the diagnosis of hydrocephalus
the early diagnosis of hydrocephalus
is imperative if definitive steps for
its correction are to be effective.
transillumination is a fairly accurate
procedure that may offer the earliest
means of determining whether or not
the infant's head is enlarging.
however, serial head measurements
constitute the easiest and most
accurate method for early detection
of hydrocephalus.  charts of normal
head size of full-term and premature
infants are available to aid the
physician in evaluating any deviation
from normal.  once the condition has
been detected, it is up to the
neurosurgeon to determine the
treatment plan.  the operative procedure
most widely used for shunting the
excessive cerebrospinal fluid is
insertion of a spitz-holter valve.
early detection and improved treatment
methods will help prevent irreversible
intellectual damage likely to develop
if hydrocephalus continues unchecked.
.I 724
.W
infantile hydrocephalus and hematoma in the posterior fossa
we have presented a case of hydrocephalus in
an infant, the basic cause being intracranial
hemorrhage in the perinatal period.  surgical re-
moval of a hematoma in the posterior fossa did not
give permanent relief of the raised intracranial
pressure.  a lumbar air study at this stage dis-
closed information that the passage through the
intracerebral cerebrospinal-fluid pathways was
normalized whereas the extracerebral ones still
were occluded by arachnoiditis.  the condition
necessitated a ventriculo-atrial shunt.
.I 725
.W
urinary excretion of i131-diodrast injected intraventricularly
in communicating hydrocephalus and aqueduct stenosis
nine cases of expansive infantile hydro-
cephalus were investigated by injecting
small amounts of i131-diodrast intra-
ventricularly.  urinary excretion of the
tracer was determined during the first
4-5 hours after injection.  the cumulative
excretion of diodrast from the c.s.f. dif-
fers in cases with communicating hydro-
cephalus from those with stenosis of the
aqueduct.  the investigation is rapid and
easily performed and has not produced any
side effects.
.I 726
.W
gastrointestinal
ulceration and central
nervous system lesions
there is both a real and an apparent in-
crease in the incidence of severe gastroin-
testinal ulceration due to central nervous
lesions.  some of this increased incidence
reflects recently devised iatrogenic measures
including new drugs and surgical therapy.
in adults, cerebrovascular lesions are the
commonest single cause of acute peptic ul-
ceration found at autopsy.  in children, we
found 25 instances of upper gastrointestinal
ulceration due to central nervous system le-
sions in 1,750 autopsies.  two general ana-
tomical categories could be recognized: acute
ulceration and malacias.
a variety of causative central nervous sys-
tem lesions was responsible in these 25 cases,
the commonest being bacterial meningitis.
other causes were poliomyelitis, brain tu-
mor, hydrocephalus, etc.
theories of pathogenesis are presented.
more experience with both drug and surgical
therapy is needed.  the recent development
of local freezing techniques offers promise
for reduction of mortality.
.I 727
.W
mansonia crassipes as the natural vector of filarioids, plasmodium gallinaceum
and other plasmodia of fowls in ceylon
it would appear from these
observations that m.
crassipes is the natural vector of
p. gallinaceum of fowls
in ceylon and possibly of other
species of plasmodium of
fowls or of related avian hosts.
if one of the other
plasmodia from m. crassipes is
in fact p. lophurae
then this will be the first record
of p. lophurae from
this part of the world.  we are,
however, not certain
whether the fowl is the natural
vertebrate host of
p. lophurae in ceylon.
we have seen crithidial forms in
the midgut of engorged
wild-caught m. crassipes.  this
mosquito may, therefore,
prove to be the vector of the
trypanosome as well.  the
trypanosome differs from
trypanosoma gallinarum and
t. calmettei which have previously
been reported from
fowls.
.I 728
.W
filariasis in portuguese timor, with observations on a new microfilaria
found in man
the results are described of an
investigation into filariasis in portuguese timor.
two types of microfilariae were
found in blood films: one was wuchereria bancrofti
and the other, referred to as the timor
microfilaria, is probably a new species.
blood surveys showed that w.
bancrofti and the timor microfilaria were widely
distributed in the territory but that infection
rates were usually low.
clinical lesions were few and mild;
elephantiasis was confined to oedema of the
lower limbs below the knee.
the timor microfilaria resembles
that of brugia malayi in general staining
reaction and appearance and in the possession
of two nuclei in the terminal thread, but
differs in over-all length, in cephalic-space ratio,
and in failure of the sheath to stain with
giemsa.  it is nocturnally periodic.  it was
rapidly removed from the peripheral blood
by treatment with diethylcarbamazine citrate
in daily doses of 9.3-13.3 mgm. per kgm. body
weight or 3.3-5.0 mgm. per kgm. body weight
for seven days.  only damaged fragments of
adult female worms were recovered.
the timor microfilaria was not
found in cats, dogs or monkeys.
the vectors of filariasis in timor
are still unknown.
.I 729
.W
dipetalonema obtusa (mccoy,1936) comb. n. (filarioidea:
onchocercidae) in colombian primates, with a description of the adult
microfilaria obtusa mccoy, 1936, was identified in
the blood of 29 (31%) of 93 cebus
capucinus and c. albifrons from northern colombia, but was not
found in an additional 42 c. apella and
99 saimiri sciurea from other areas in colombia.  the adult male
and female, recovered from the peri-
esophageal connective tissue of the infected animals, are described
in detail.  dipetalonema obtusa (mc-
coy, 1936) comb. n. resembles tetrapetalonema marmosetae faust,
1935, but is smaller and the right
spicule is complex, not simple.
.I 730
.W
experimental onchocercal ocular lesions in the chimpanzee
this is the first attempt to produce
onchocercal eye lesions with microfilariae of
o. volvulus in the chimpanzee.
live microfilariae, once in the anterior
chamber of the eye, could penetrate the an-
gle of the anterior chamber, the iris, the
ciliary body, the choroid and the vitreous.
most of the microfilariae injected alive
into the anterior chamber of the eyes of the
chimpanzee died within a short time.  com-
parison, therefore, could not be made be-
tween the effects of live and dead micro-
filariae.
microfilariae debris was demonstrated
within giant cells for the first time.
subconjunctival and limbal infiltration
with incipient pannus, inflammation within
the trabecular meshwork of the angle of the
anterior chamber and extensive active iri-
docyclitis were demonstrated in histologic
sections, although the conditions were clini-
cally quiescent.
the posterior segment lesion of oncho-
cercal chorioretinal degeneration could not
be reproduced.
subcutaneous and intravenous injec-
tions of worm extracts, derived from human
onchocercomas, may have contributed to the
onset of active choroiditis.  this sensitization
alone, without the intraocular injection of
microfilariae, had no effects on the eye.
various aspects of the pathogenesis of
human onchocerciasis are discussed on the
basis of present experimentation.
.I 731
.W
the occurence of dirofilaria magnilarvatum price
and brugia sp. in philippine monkeys
of 356 macaca philippinensis examined, three were
found infected with dirofilaria magnilarvatum price, 1959.
one of these was infected also with a species of brugla.
both species showed a sub-periodic type of microfilarial
periodicity.  these observations suggest that philippine
macaques may serve as reservoirs for sub-periodic
b. malayi on palawan, where high rates of infection have
been found in people living in small villages in the
forests.  mansonia bonneae was found naturally infected
with third stage larvae of d. magnilarvatum.  it is sug-
gested that monkeys may serve as reservoirs for sub-
periodic b. malayi on the island of palawan, where high
rates of infection with this species have been observed
in people living in small villages in the forest.
.I 732
.W
the filarial parasites of the eastern gorilla in the congo
a survey for parasites has been undertaken in 20 mountain
gorillas (gorilla gorilla beringei) from the eastern congo kivu
province.
six full-grown (two males and four females),
three adolescents
(one male and two females), and eleven
young gorillas were
examined, some of them during several
consecutive months.  nine
autopsies were performed.
no protozoa were discovered in the blood.
plasmodium parasites
which are common in gorillas and chimpanzees
from west africa
were never found in the eastern congo primates,
including ten
other gorillas examined previously and some fifty chimpanzees.
severe diarrhoea with a balantidiasis picture developed in two
young gorillas.  autopsy revealed however an intensive infection
with oesophagostomum stephanostomum and resulting fatty degenera-
tion of the liver.  oligotrichida belonging to the genus troglodytella
were commonly found in the intestinal tract.  oesophagostomum
stephanostomum eggs were consistently present in the stools of
the gorillas and autoinfection caused the death of several young
gorillas 4 to 6 weeks after their capture.
many microfilariae were found in the blood and the skin.  pre-
liminary communications were published mentioning the existence
of four different microfilariae in the blood of gorillas and of three
others in the dermal layers of the skin.  after a detailed study seven
species have been identified and described:  dipetalonema leopoldi,
d. gorillae, d. vanhoofi, d. streptocercum, microfilaria binucleata,
loa loa gorillae n.subsp. and onchocerca volvulus.  three of the
worms described have so far been discovered only in gorilla gorilla,
namely dipetalonema leopoldi, d. gorillae and loa loa gorillae.  two
of them were previously known from the chimpanzee, namely
d. vanhoofi and microfilaria binucleata.  one species, d. strepto-
cercum, first discovered in man and later described from the chimpan-
zee, is now also known from gorilla gorilla.  onchocerca volvulus has
been found in only one of the 20 gorillas examined.  gorilla gorilla
beringei in eastern congo might become through close contact
with man and his filarial vectors an abnormal or accidental host of
d. streptocercum and onchocerca volvulus or else might be considered
as an original reservoir of these filarial parasites of man.
.I 733
.W
a pilot project for the control of filariasis
in thailand
in a village in kanjanadit district of surat-thani province, south thailand,
where a field station for filariasis studies had been established by the
bangkok school of tropical medicine, blood films were examined from 977 persons
(95.5 per cent. of the total population of 1,023).  two thick films (each of
20 c.mm.) were prepared from each person and stained with giemsa.  it was found
that 21.1 per cent. of the people harboured microfilariae (all brugia malayi).
elephantiasis was found in 5.3 per cent. of the population.
microfilarial periodicity was studied in 25 persons; in every case it was
found to be markedly nocturnal.
the blood of 98 cats, 52 dogs and two monkeys was also examined.  no b. malayi
larvae were recovered.
mosquitoes were caught and identified.  in an initial survey, 4,557 mosquitoes
were examined, of which 568 were mansonia spp.  in 4,136 dissections, b. malayi
larvae in stage ii were found in one m. uniformis and in stage iii in another;
the infection rate for m. uniformis was 0.6 per cent.
spraying with ddt was carried out in all the houses during the last phase of
the investigation.  it resulted in a slight decline in the numbers and
percentage of mansonia mosquitoes caught.
diethylcarbamazine was administered to as many of the villagers as possible,
in a dose of 5 mgm. of the citrate salt per kgm. body weight once weekly for
six weeks.  eight hundred and eighty-eight persons received the drug (86.8
per cent. of the population).  considerable side-effects were observed in
nearly all microfilaria-carriers.  blood examinations were repeated one month
and again one year after cessation of the drug.  it was found that the
proportion of microfilaria-carriers had decreased from 21.1 per cent. to 2.2
and 2.2 per cent. respectively, the filariasis infection rate from 26.1 per
cent. to 8.6 and 8.5 per cent., and the mean microfilarial density of all films
from 4.8 per 20 c.mm. blood to 0.48 and 0.12.  larvae of b. malayi were not
found in mosquitoes dissected one month and one year after the mass therapy.
.I 734
.W
studies on loiasis in monkeys.
iv.--experimental hybridization of the human and
simian strains of loa
in the cameroons rain-forest there exist two strains of loa, each apparently
evolving in its own host-vector complex (duke and wijers, 1958).  the natural
simian parasite which is found most abundantly in the drill (mandrillus
leucophaeus), is characterized by the large somatic size of the adult worms
and microfilariae and by its nocturnal microfilariae periodicity.  it is
transmitted among the monkey population by the crepuscular canopy-dwelling
chrysops langi and c. centurionis.  the natural human parasite has diurnally
periodic microfilariae and is transmitted by the day-biting anthropophilic
c. silacea and c. dimidiata (bombe form).  it can also be transmitted
experimentally to the drill, in which host the parasites are of small somatic
size and maintain their diurnal periodicity.
as the two strains of contrasting periodicity can be maintained in drills, it
was decided to try cross-mating them to produce hybrids.  the present paper
describes the methods by which this was done, records the characteristics of
the hybrid parasites, and suggests that, when interbreeding, the two strains
segregate according to a simple mendelian pattern as regards periodicity and
somatic size.
.I 735
.W
development of dirofilaria immitis in anopheles quadri-
maculatus after exposure of the microfilariae to a
freezing temperature
blood samples containing dirofilaria
immitis microfilariae were stored frozen for
periods ranging from 24 hr to 4 months,
thawed at 38 1c and
fed through an animal-derived bandrode membrane to laboratory-reared anopheles
quadrimaculatus.  the microfilariae were capable of developing to the third or
infective larval stage and migrating to the head and labium of the mosquito.
.I 736
.W
advances in filariasis
especially concerning periodicity of microfilariae
a review is given of some advances in our knowledge about filariasis during the
past ten years.
it is urged that investigations should be continued on methods to facilitate
the control of filariasis in large populations, by means of
diethylcarbamazine--e.g. incorporation of the compound in cooking salt, as
was done with chloroquine against malaria.  furthermore, steps should be taken
to protect young people against filariasis by systematic treatment in the
schools.
in order to understand the cyclical disappearance of microfilariae from the
peripheral blood and their accumulation in the lungs, the movements of
microfilariae in the pulmonary capillaries has been studied by cinematography.
apparently their accumulation in the lungs is not due to mechanical retention,
but perhaps they migrate round and round in the pre-capillary network of
arterioles.
the periodicity of microfilariae is best considered as a biological rhythm.
apparently the microfilariae have a circadian rhythm of their own which is
entrained and synchronized by stimuli from the circadian rhythm of the host.
judging by experiments with monkeys containing microfilariae of edesonfilaria
malayensis, the most effective of these stimuli from the host seems to be the
rhythmic variation of body temperature which occurs every 24 hours.
.I 737
.W
attempts to transmit wuchereria bancrofti to cats and to a toque monkey
there are no records of the larval development of wuchereria bancrofti in
experimental animals.  in attempts to transmit periodic w. bancrofti to
domestic cats and to a toque monkey we recovered from one of the cats an
infective larva that had undergone some development.  this finding was
reported in a preliminary note (dissanaike and niles, 1963); the present paper
gives the experimental details and describes the larva.
.I 738
.W
the periodicity of microfilariae.
x. the relation between the circadian temperature cycle
of monkeys and the microfilarial cycle.
monkeys were used whose blood contained the microfilariae of edesonfilaria
malayensis, which has a nocturnal periodicity.
artificial lowering of the body temperature during the daytime caused the
microfilaria count in the blood to rise; and artificial raising of the body
temperature during the night caused it to fall almost to zero, i.e. inversion
of the normal circadian temperature rhythm of the body was followed by
inversion of the microfilarial rhythm.
the hypothesis is put forward that the circadian rhythm of the microfilariae
of e. malayensis (but probably not of the microfilariae of some other species)
is entrained by the circadian rhythm of body temperature, which thus provides
the "effective stimuli" to which these microfilariae respond.
.I 739
.W
the periodicity of microfilariae
ix. transfusion of microfilariae (edesonfilaria) into
monkeys at a different phase of the circadian rhythm
this paper reports experiments in which microfilariae at one phase of their
circadian rhythm were transfused into a host at another phase of the circadian
rhythm, in an attempt to analyse the relative importance of the rhythms
inherent in the microfilariae and of those in the host for the production of
the well known periodic migrations.  the experiments were performed with
edesonfilaria malayensis (yeh, 1960) present in a macaca monkey from thailand.
.I 740
.W
biliary tract morphology and prognosis
of biliary atresia
in 86 infants who did not have extrahepatic "hepatic" ducts, present
observation after use of artificial
bile ducts suggests that the presence of the
gallbladder may be of good prognostic significance in biliary atresia.
there are 11 long-term survivors (as of october 1965) up to 8 1/4 years of
age (100 months) after use of artificial bile ducts in 86 babies.  a
gallbladder was identified in 10 of the 11 infants.
other specific factors for this prolonged survival pattern in these infants
with biliary atresia have not yet been identified, although suggestive
correlations among minimal hepatic fibrosis, maximal bile ductule
proliferations and the presence of the gallbladder were noted.
it is suspected that if any opportunity for long-term survivals exists for
infants to overcome the tragic occurrence of biliary atresia that the
surgeon should avoid trauma to the hepatic pedicle.
we may be able to provide a "guarded" rather than a "pessimistic" prog-
nosis when the gallbladder is found in the babies with biliary atresia.
.I 741
.W
current concepts in the management
of congenital biliary atresia
the current management of congenital
biliary atresia at the university of cali-
fornia, los angeles is reviewed.
biliary enteric decompression was
performed on 18 of the 27 patients, eight
of whom are presently alive (29.6%).
these figures are higher than the cure rate
of 8% previously reported.
described recently.  five additional patients
with extrahepatic atresia underwent biliary
decompression by means of a hepatic
lymphaticojejunostomy.
early diagnosis of biliary atresia is im-
perative in order that any corrective sur-
gery may be performed before advanced
biliary cirrhosis develops.
.I 742
.W
congenital atresia of
the extrahepatic bile ducts
because congenital atresia of the extra-
hepatic biliary tract is almost always fatal,
exception to this course becomes of interest.
the remarkable history of one such infant
was reported in 1960 when he had attained
the age of 2 1/2 years and, after three opera-
tions, he was in good health developing nor-
mally and free of jaundice.  since he is now
8 1/2 years of age, has had two more opera-
tions, is still free of jaundice, and is again
in good health, his further course since 1960
should be of interest.
.I 743
.W
neuroaxonal dystrophy in congenital
biliary atresia
neuroaxonal dystrophy has been described in 8 patients with congenital
biliary atresia.  the characteristic changes include axonal dystrophy, a mild
loss of nerve cells and a variable degree of astrocytic reaction, mainly in the
gracile, cuneate and trigeminal nerve nuclei in the medulla, and rarely in
other parts of the central nervous system.
the neuroaxonal dystrophy in these patients is remarkably similar to that
in patients with prolonged mucoviscidosis and in experimental vitamin
e-deficient rats.
it is strongly suggested that the neuroaxonal dystrophy in these patients
with congenital biliary atresia is a manifestation of prolonged vitamin e
deficiency.
the neuroaxonal dystrophy in these patients is also similar to that seen
in aging and bears resemblance to the axonal change encountered in a group
of heredo-degenerative diseases, the various forms of "hallervorden-spatz
disease".  the pathological similarity between these diverse conditions
warrants further investigation as to the possible metabolic
relationship between them.
.I 744
.W
extrahepatic biliary atresia: comments on the
frequency of potentially operable cases
in a 10 year period, 35 infants with extrahepatic biliary atresia were
encountered.  twenty-eight babies, who were subjected to surgery and operative
liver biopsy, are discussed.  although an operable lesion was detected at
laparotomy in only one baby, 5 further potentially correctable lesions were
discovered in the 14 necropsies performed.  review of the literature revealed
that few authors have discussed necropsy findings and that confirmation of the
diagnosis by liver biopsy has been neglected in many cases, including some
of those claimed as surgical cures.  it is concluded that the frequency of
potentially operable forms of biliary atresia is not really known.
.I 745
.W
metabolism and excretion of c14-labeled bilirubin in children
with biliary atresia
and judson g. randolph
radioactive bilirubin was injected intravenously
into 3 children with biliary atresia.  the isotope
over a period of ten to fourteen days was recovered
principally in the urine.  sixty per cent of the label
in the urine was found to be in the form of bili-
rubin.  distribution of the radioisotope was observed
to be principally extravascular but not, as in other
forms of jaundice, in the same distribution as albumin.
daily turnover of bilirubin was several times greater
than the calculated normal daily production of bili-
rubin.  this was assumed to be due to increased
hemoglobin breakdown, confirmed by survival studies
of cr51-tagged red cells.  the serum half-life of intra-
venously administered radioactive bilirubin may have
useful prognostic value in children with biliary atresia.
.I 746
.W
central regulation of enzyme activity and synthesis
in embryonal and adult mammalian tissues
activity of non-specific hexokinase (hk) in soluble fraction and,
particularly, in mitochondria of embryonal liver is much higher than
in the adult rabbit; it decreases in the prenatal period, gradually
approaching adulthood values postnatally (fig.1).  embryonal liver
lacks specific glucokinase (gk) (1,2), although during the second half
of embryonic development there occurs incretion of insulin, known
to induce gk synthesis in the liver of alloxan diabetic animals (3,4).
activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (g6p dh) in
soluble liver fraction is subject to quite similar changes during
embryonic development.
.I 747
.W
ribonuclease activity in hepatic nuclei during development
mammalian liver undergoes marked qualitative and quantitative changes
during the development from the embryonic to the adult stage.  many of these
events are associated with the derepression or repression of certain enzymes
which may be related to specialized subcellular activity.  the involvement
of ribonucleic acid in the transcription of the information from the genome
into the construction of a finished protein molecule has prompted a study of
biosynthesis of the rna during differentiation.  although considerable effort
in this regard has been expended in amphibian1-5 and avian6,7 systems, as well
as in the sea urchin8-11, a paucity of literature exists with mammalian liver.
accordingly, an investigation of the alterations in rna metabolism which
occur during the development of the rat embryonic liver has been undertaken.
this report concerns the fluctuations in nuclear ribonuclease during hepatic
development and some of the properties of the enzyme.
.I 748
.W
an electron microscopic study of developing gall
bladder epithelium in the rabbit
the gall bladder epithelium of the
adult rabbit consists of two types of cells.
the first and more common type shows features associated with absorption,
notably microvilli, limited pinocytosis, some lysosomes and an elaboration of
the lateral cell membrane and intercellular spaces.  the mitochondria are
concentrated in a subapical band.
the second and more infrequent type is a dark rod-shaped cell of unknown
function but which may be a dehydrated epithelial cell.
foetal epithelial cells lack the functional adult characteristics; the mito-
chondria are uniformly distributed.  in addition they display basal granules
and apical apocrine bullae.
epithelial cell damage and white cell infiltration occurs between 24 days
after birth or just after.
just before birth some epithelial cells are very large and pale with smooth
outlines, others are more dense and display vigorous pinocytosis.
adult characteristics are acquired at or immediately after birth and pino-
cytosis subsides.  it is believed that water resorption occurs before the
functional changes which allow continuous passage of water into the
circulation.
.I 749
.W
congenital anomalies of the cystic duct
and phineas rabinovitch
anomalies of the cystic duct, of four differ-
ent types, are reported.  the characteris-
tic anatomic appearance and embryonic
development of each of these anomalies
are described and the clinical and surgical
significance discussed.
.I 750
.W
lesions of the liver in hereditary
metabolic diseases
whether the various cells of the liver, both parenchymal and stromal,
receive genetic misinformation in all hereditary diseases caused by gene
mutation is unknown, but the metabolic capabilities of these several cell
types are so diverse that it is not surprising that their involvement in
many such diseases can be demonstrated by clinical, pathological, or bio-
chemical methods.  repetitive abnormality of the liver has apparently not
been defined for any disease caused by quantitative (i.e., chromosomal)
gene anomaly, whether produced by nondisjunction, translocation, or
major deletion, perhaps because relatively few such diseases have been
described.  as a result, the genetically determined disorders of the liver
surveyed in this paper appear to be the result of conventional "single
gene" abnormalities, and to be transmitted in affected families by men-
delian mechanisms.
.I 751
.W
acid catabolic enzyme activity in relation
to accessory limb and cancer initiation in amphibia
cathepsin and acid phosphatase were determined in livers and kidneys
of adult rana pipiens and triturus viridescens.  organ-specific and species-
specific differences in distribution of these enzymes were found, as well as
considerable differences in the effect triton x-100 on the two enzymes.
a heterogeneous population of lysosomes in respect to enzyme content and
stability is deduced.
we have found positive correlations between catheptic activity of the
implant and host tissue dissociation, and between acid phosphatase and
inducibility, as features of the phenomenon of implant-induced accessory
limb formation in urodeles.  further, we have found a positive correlation
between catheptic activity and resistance to virus-induced renal adenocar-
cinoma development in rana pipiens.
.I 752
.W
neonatology
considerable progress has been made in the
knowledge of bilirubin metabolism since the char-
acterization of "direct" (conjugated) bilirubin as an
ester glucuronide.  the metabolic pathway involved
in this hepatic conjugation is now well established
and has been the subject of excellent reviews by
sherlock and billing.
sherlock's diagrammatic representations of biliru-
bin metabolism (fig. 1) and of the possible mecha-
nisms of jaundice (fig. 2) are reproduced here
because they furnish a clear picture to serve as a
reference point for the discussion to follow.
it is interesting to re-examine current concepts of
the etiology of physiologic jaundice with this dia-
gram in mind.  jaundice may occur for a number of
reasons, described below.
.I 753
.W
red cell glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency--a newly
recognized cause of neonatal jaundice and kernicterus in canada
seven male newborns of chinese, greek and
italian origin presented with severe hemo-
lytic jaundice due to red cell glucose-6-
phosphate dehydrogenase (g-6-pd) defi-
ciency.  in five, the hemolysis was precipi-
tated by inhalation of mothball vapours in
the home.  kernicterus was evident upon
admission in six infants and was fatal in
four of these.
g-6-pd deficiency should be suspected as
a cause of jaundice in all full-term male
infants of these ethnic groups.  the diag-
nosis can be confirmed in any hospital by
the methemoglobin reduction test.  in areas
similar to toronto, canada, where these
high-risk ethnic groups prevail, the follow-
ing measures are recommended: (1) detec-
tion of g-6-pd deficient newborns by
screening cord bloods of all infants of these
ethnic groups: (2) protection of affected
infants from potentially hemolytic agents
such as naphthalene, certain vitamin k
preparations, and sulfonamides; and (3) ob-
servation of serum bilirubin levels to assess
the need for exchange transfusion for hyper-
bilirubinemia.
.I 754
.W
trisomy 17-18 syndrome with congenital
extrahepatic biliary atresia and congenital
amputation of the left foot
the phenotypic characteristics of
the 17-18 trisomy syndrome have been well
described.  among the most recently docu-
mented cases of this syndrome are those
with findings of agenesis or aplasia of various
bones of the forearm and hand, in addition
to the more classical symptoms.
we have recently studied a case of trisomy
17-18 syndrome with congenital absence of
the left foot, and congenital extrahepatic
biliary atresia.
.I 755
.W
differentiation of explanted fragments of
early chick blastoderm
ii. culture on protein-deficient medium
enriched with rna
posterior fragments of head process
blastoderms were cultured in vitro for two
days on a protein-deficient medium sup-
plemented with various rna's, after which
they were grafted over the chorio-allantoic
membrane for eight to nine days.
pancreatic (adult) rna enhanced
the development of the entodermal epi-
thelium.
heart (adult) rna caused hyper-
plasia of the epidermis with, in some cases,
keratinized papillary projections.
brain (embryonic) rna produced a
papillomatous epidermis with giant epi-
dermal cysts that were keratinized and
fibrillar as in feather formation.
liver (embryonic) rna had no vis-
ible tissue modifications.
in the controls there was no keratini-
zation, nor papillary formation of the epi-
dermis.  the epidermal cysts were very
small, unkeratinized and devoid of fibrillar
organization.
the results are discussed in terms of
relationships of proteins from brain, mus-
cle and skin.
.I 756
.W
the inhibition of cell aggregation by a pure
serum protein
the aggregation of embryonic chick and quail limb bud, heart and liver cells
in a shaker system has been investigated in order to elucidate the mechanism of
cell adhesion.
a new method of assessing aggregation is described and evaluated; this
method involved measurements of aggregation kinetics.  it was found that the
measured kinetics agree closely with flocculation kinetics, which provides a
direct quantitative measurement of adhesiveness in terms of the
probability of an adhesion forming on contact between two cells.
using this technique it was confirmed that aggregation is inhibited at
1-2 c. in the presence of serum but not in its absence.  the kinetics of
aggregation in the presence of serum at 37 c., the lack of inhibition of
aggregation at 1-2 c. by serum which has been 'conditioned' by the presence of
cells, and the similar lack of inhibitory power of serum which has been
pre-treated with antiserum antibodies, all suggest that serum contains a
factor which inhibits aggregation until destroyed by cellular metabolism.
.I 757
.W
les icteres du nouveau-ne en dehors
de l'incompatibilite foeto-maternelle
statistical data pulled off a study of 30 haemolytic neonatal icteri
not linked to a foeto-maternal incompatibility, and of 200 non haemo-
lytic neonatal icteri.  among this latter, the two most important groups
are the malformative icteri (69 cases) and the neonatal hepatitis
(109 cases).  the difficulties of the diagnosis frequently rencountered
between these two groups clearly appear in the comparative statistical
analysis of the clinical, histological and evolutive data.
.I 758
.W
the immunological development of the human
fetus
the normal human fetus is said not to be engaged in the formation of immuno-
globulins; the immunoglobulins present in the serum of the fetus and the
newborn are considered to be of maternal origin.  in favor of this opinion is
the observation that directly after birth the serum of the newborn contains an
appreciable amount of igg, with gm groups identical with those of the mother
(68-70).  the level of the igg of the neonate decreases gradually during the
first 3 months (3,27,71), which is generally explained by the catabolism of
the maternal igg, whereas the formation by the newborn infant is still
inadequate to maintain the original level (16,27).  the best evidence for the
transplacental passage is the almost complete absence of igg in the serum of
newborn infants from mothers with agammaglobulinemia (3,27).
the transfer of the immunoglobulins appears to be a selective process
(13, 15).  while igg is readily transferred, there is little, if any,
transfer of iga and igm, as has been shown by ultracentrifugation and
immunoelectrophoretic studies of the serum (12, 16, 19, 20) and the analysis
of maternally-transferred antibodies (31-33).  with more sensitive techniques
such as the double diffusion test in agar or quantitative immunochemical
techniques, however, minute amounts of both igm and iga have been detected
in fetal blood as well as in cord blood from mature and immature neonates
(12, 19, 20, 23, 26).  since large molecules do not pass the placenta, this
may indicate that the trace amounts of igm originate in the fetus itself, but
transplacental passage has not been completely excluded.
the absence of immunoglobulin formation has been associated with the absence
of plasma cells in the lymphoid tissues and bone marrow of the normal human
fetus and the newborn.  it has been reported that these cells do not appear
until a few weeks after birth (2, 3, 14, 25, 34).  however, in pathological
conditions such as congenital syphilis and toxoplasmosis the human fetus has
been found to respond to the antigenic stimulus with intrauterine formation of
plasma cells after about the sixth month of gestation (24,25).
.I 759
.W
galactosemie congenitale
this observation of a case of congenital galactosemia with
a particular familial incidence gives the opportunity of a
brief review on the subject.
of a certain point of view we must consider that galac-
tosemia is much more frequent than we suppose, that there
are many severe cases with a reserved prognosis, that even
with very slight degree of galactosemia, the disease must
receive the most careful attention from the pediatrician.
.I 760
.W
postnatal changes in the portal circulation
during foetal development a large portion of the
oxygenated umbilical blood flows through the
umbilical recess directly into both main portal
branches.  accordingly, these are exposed to the
umbilical blood pressure and have a wide
by contrast, the trunk of the portal vein is narrow
and there is probably only a small blood flow through
it from the inactive digestive tract, though the
pressure in it is approximately the same as in the
umbilical vein or perhaps somewhat higher.
immediately after birth the liver is deprived of the
substantial umbilical blood flow.  the portal
venous pressure falls to about one-quarter of the
umbilical venous pressure at birth.  however the
pressure gradient between the portal veins and
inferior vena cava remains constant.
.I 761
.W
pattern of serum transaminase activity
in neonatal jaundice due to cytomegalic inclusion
disease and toxoplasmosis with hepatic involvement
the pattern of serum transaminase ac-
tivity that evolved in a newborn infant with
congenital toxoplasmosis and in another new-
born infant with congenital cytomegalic in-
clusion disease is described.  this enzymatic
pattern was unlike that found in infants with
any other cause of neonatal jaundice studied
to date.
.I 762
.W
impaired development of rat liver enzyme activities at
birth after irradiation in utero
development of activity of three liver enzymes at birth was studied in rats re-
ceiving 180 rads of x-rays on day 15 of gestation.  at 20 days of gestation,
activities of lactic and glycerophosphate dehydrogenases and
glucose-6-phosphatase were not altered.  the subsequent increases in enzyme
activities in the 3 days between 20 days of gestation and 1 day of age were
only 30 to 60% of those observed in controls.  this finding suggests that
irradiation in utero may alter later development of enzyme activity in the
perinatal period.
.I 763
.W
(cytological and cytochemical study of
hepatic cells in the human embryo)
changes in golgi apparatus and mitochondria as well as in the contents of
nucleic acids, proteins, polysaccharides, lipids and iron in the hepatic cells
of developing human embryo were studied; the data obtained in human embryos and
adults were compared.  it was found that during the developmental process some
changes in localisations of golgi apparatus and iron salts were taking place.
the contents of rna and polysaccharides in the cytoplasm increased:
mitochondria in the form of granules were revealed throughout the embryonic
period and in adults.  no essential alterations in the contents of dna,
proteins, and lipids were noted.
.I 764
.W
risk of severe jaundice in
glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase
deficiency of the newborn
the incidence of g.-6-p.d. deficiency and neonatal
jaundice in all male infants born in one year in an area of
the island of lesbos was studied.
of 634 infants tested, 29 (4.6%) were found to be
g.-6-p.d. deficient.  hyperbilirubinaemia of 16 mg. per
100 ml. or over was observed in 34% of g.-6-p.d.-
deficient newborn males and in 9.1% of those with normal
enzyme activity--in more than half of them in the absence
of incompatibility or prematurity.
this is the first time that such a high incidence of
severe neonatal jaundice has been reported in both a
g.-6-p.d.-deficient and a g.-6-p.d.-normal group.  it is
postulated that in the population of lesbos a second
factor increases the incidence of neonatal jaundice,
especially when this factor is combined with g.-6-p.d.
deficiency.
.I 765
.W
studies of b-glucuronidase acti-
vity in bile and liver of devel-
oping chick embryos and chicks
in search for the reason of the occur-
rence of unconjugated bilirubin and
biliverdin in chick-embryo and in chick
bile the possibility of a b-glucuronidase
function must be taken into serious con-
sideration.
.I 766
.W
jaundice in infancy
most causes of jaundice in infancy are discussed.  the empha-
sis has been on those syndromes solely or usually encountered
in the neonate and infant.
.I 767
.W
absence of the cystic duct
a case of congenital absence of the cystic
duct is described, the 18th reported case in
the literature.  the embryogenetic basis of
anomalies of the extrahepatic biliary tree
is discussed.  methods of early operative
recognition and surgical management of
the anomaly are suggested.
.I 768
.W
familial extrahepatic biliary atresia
a fifth family with familial congenital
extrahepatic biliary is described.
clinically and pathologically familial
and nonfamilial biliary atresia are similar
except for a predominance of males in the
familial condition.
the sex incidence and association of
other congenital anomalies is discussed in
relation to a possible etiology.  further in-
formation must be correlated and new facts
uncovered before the nature of this syn-
drome will be known.
.I 769
.W
linfangiografia no estudo da filariase linfatica
in the first part of the present paper a study is presented
of the lymphangiogram of the normal african; the author has
noticed that it is coincident with the one of the white indi-
vidual.
the second part includes the lymphangiographic examina-
tion and the observation of lymph circulation (via risa)
during the several stages of lymphatic filariasis.
even during the asymptomatic stage, lymphangiography
shows ganglial hypertrophy with a slight fibrosis and occa-
sional discreet alterations of the lymphatic trunks.
in the symptomatic stage, the lymphangiographic aspects
vary according to the disease's different stages and there is
not always a relationship between the duration period of the
symptoms and the changes observed.
in lymphangites, there are frequent alterations of the
lymphatic trunks, i.e., increase in caliber, extensive and seg-
mentary dilatations, numerical decrease with visualization of
anastomoses and higher permeability.  circulatory trouble evi-
dences itself not only by a decrease in the rate of the lymph
flow, but also by a very marked ganglial retention.
in adenites, in spite of the marked ganglial hypertrophy
due to intense sclerosis, there may be no considerable altera-
tions in the lymphatics, but risa already shows clear circula-
tion troubles leading to lymphatic stasis.
in adenolymphoceles, the obstruction at the primitive-iliac
level causes the lymph flow to deviate through the pre-sacral
anastomoses and reflux to the inguinal glands, thus causing
their dilatation and the formation of varicosities in the affe-
rent lymphatics.
in lymphedemas, our lymphangiographic results together
with risa's allow us to assume that the pathogeny is chiefly
influenced by three factors: lymphatic obstruction due to lym-
phangitis, insufficiency of the collateral ducts, and ganglial
sclerosis.
.I 770
.W
adjuvant chemotherapy in cancer of the
large bowel
the completeness of reporting, the avail-
ability of continuous statistical analysis to
warn of adverse effects, and the accumulation
of 300 cases a year have demonstrated that this
cooperative study group can provide a rela-
tively quick assessment of a new approach to
treatment of cancer of the large bowel.  it is
hoped that a study begun in january, 1962, on
the use of 5-fluorodeoxyuridine as an adjuvant
to adequate excisional surgery may demon-
strate that, with a drug known to produce
objective remissions in 20 per cent of a group
of unresectable cases of colon carcinoma
the five year survival rate in curative resections
may be improved.
.I 771
.W
cancer chemotherapy by prolonged arterial
infusion
our current experience is reported with
136 patients treated by prolonged arterial
infusion chemotherapy.  the patients pre-
sented a variety of far advanced cancers un-
suitable for conventional surgical or roent-
gen therapy.  antimetabolite solution, either
methotrexate or a fluorinated pyrimidine,
was injected continuously through a small
plastic catheter into the unobstructed artery
to provide a high regional drug concentration
for days to weeks.  the patients have received
drug infusion for up to 45 days.  their course
has been followed for up to 37 months after
treatment.
methotrexate with antidote therapy by
systemic administration of citrovorum fac-
tor was used preferentially in most patients.
a fluorinated pyrimidine, most commonly,
5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine, was preferred for
hepatic artery infusion of liver metastases.
.I 772
.W
the montgomery tube to palliate
hypopharyngeal cancer
three cases of advanced, incurable cancer of the hypopharynx
have been presented.  in each instance, the simple procedure of insert-
ing an available prothesis served as an effective palliation for an
otherwise difficult or hopeless situation.
.I 773
.W
adjuvant cancer chemotherapy
development of a dosage schedule for adjuvant cancer chemotherapy
in surgical cases
an account is given of the development
of a dosage schedule for adjuvant can-
cer chemotherapy for surgical patients.
this treatment was administered for
two purposes:
as an adjuvant to radical surgery
to reduce the risk of blood-borne
metastases.
as a palliative measure for non-ra-
dically operated and inoperable pa-
tients.
for these purposes 3 dosage levels
were fixed:
a maximum tolerated dose for ad-
juvant therapy.
a maximum tolerated dose for pa-
renteral palliative therapy.
a maximum tolerated dose for oral
palliative therapy.
for this treatment the authors used
2 antimitotics, sp-i and sp-g, both of
which are podophyllin derivatives.
.I 774
.W
surgical palliation for lung cancer
the results of resecting incurable lung cancer
in an effort to improve the terminal course of a
small number of patients are briefly presented.
this is not a comparative study and no in-
ferences or conclusions are justified regarding
the choice of this form of therapy as palliation
in preference to other forms of palliative ther-
apy; however we do believe that the terminal
course of the patient with lung cancer is bene-
ficially effected by removal of the primary
tumor whenever this is technically feasible.
.I 775
.W
management of advanced endometrial
adenocarcinoma with medroxyprogesterone
acetate
a basis for progestin therapy for patients
with advanced endometrial adenocarcinoma
is presented.  the criteria for selection of
patients for hormone therapy and the sched-
ule of administration of medroxyprogester-
one (provera) is discussed.  evaluation of
patients for objective changes only, i.e., by
visual, palpable, histologic, or roentgeno-
logic means, revealed complete or partial
remission with significant palliation in 8 of
20 patients (40 per cent).  response to me-
droxyprogesterone therapy is apparently re-
lated to degree of differentiation of the pri-
mary neoplasm, the well-differentiated le-
sions being more responsive.  documentation
of tumor effect by serial biopsies during
treatment provides an index to the histologic
changes this progestin produces in suscep-
tible cases.  the effects of therapy upon
serial urinary hormone excretion rates is
documented in several patients.
on the basis of our experience, the treat-
ment of patients with advanced endometrial
adenocarcinoma with the potent progestin
medroxyprogesterone seems justified.
.I 776
.W
chemotherapy of breast cancer
the majority of cancer patients who are
referred for chemotherapy are in far advanced
stages of the disease.  the difficulty in deliver-
ing an effective dose of an oncolytic agent
to the involved areas may limit the results of
treatment unless the patient's tumor is an un-
usually responsive one.  the variability in re-
sponse between apparently similar cases of
cancer of the same cell type has become in-
creasingly evident, and is as puzzling as the
fact that 20 per cent of patients with breast
cancer will live 5 years with no treatment.  the
decisions as to the choice between chemother-
apy and hormone therapy, as well as to the
choice of the chemotherapeutic agent to be
employed, may be difficult.
as experience increases, the usefulness of
chemotherapy in the treatment of cancer is
becoming increasingly apparent.  it also has be-
come apparent that chemotherapy cannot be
regarded as a curative procedure in advanced
cancer even though an occasional patient ap-
pears to have been cured.  however, the value
of the oncolytic agents in prolonging useful
survival time, ameliorating many of the dis-
tressing symptoms associated with cancer, and
providing the physician with an extra tool for
a positive program in the care of the cancer
patient is now established.
.I 777
.W
clinical experience with palliation
of metastatic adenocarcinoma with
5-fluorouracil chemotherapy
chemotherapy of solid tumors is becoming a
more and more helpful therapeutic tool.  it
is probable that within a few years chemother-
apy will become firmly established as an ad-
junct to the primary treatment of solid tumors.
perhaps someday a cancerocidal chemical will
be devised that can actually act as antibiotics
do on bacteria.  for this reason it is important
for all surgeons interested in the treatment of
cancer to try to keep abreast of the recent ad-
vances in the field of chemotherapy.  surgeons
should also begin to use some of the technics for
palliation of incurable patients so that when
these drugs are added to the armamentarium of
primary treatment of cancer, they will be
familiar with the various technics and the mode
of actions of the drugs.
5-fluorouracil (5-fu) has had extensive clin-
ical use and has produced significant palliation
in breast and colon cancers with about a third
of these patients receiving palliation for five to
six months.
.I 778
.W
pelvic perfusion and carcinoma
of the rectum
a method of regional chemotherapy through
isolation of the pelvis has been presented.
all of the subjects were near the terminal
stage at the time of perfusion.  the survival
time and degree of palliation have been en-
couraging.
.I 779
.W
carcinoma of the esophagus
a survey of fifty-seven patients with cancer
of the esophagus occurring over a twenty year
period is presented.  the presenting complaints
of the disease, methods of diagnosis, and char-
acteristics of the disease are discussed.  three
equal treatment groups consisting of no treat-
ment, x-ray treatment, and surgical resection
were compared and the results were extremely
poor.  only one patient in all three groups sur-
vived longer than two years.  it was our con-
clusion, supported by the opinion of others,
that x-ray therapy gave the best palliation in
most cases and that surgical resection for cure
should be used in only the most suitable pa-
tients.
.I 780
.W
carcinoma of bladder: cobalt therapy
from 1959 to 1962, 202 patients have received
radiotherapy for carcinoma of the bladder.  radi-
cal therapy with cobalt-60 has been done in 121
of these cases.  these patients received tumor
doses in excess of 5000 rad in 3 weeks.  of 49 pa-
tients followed for 2 years after radical treatment,
28 are alive.  sixteen out of 32 patients with
stage b2, c or d tumors are alive; while 15 pa-
tients survived out of 30 with tumors of grades
3 and 4 (broders').  four of the 28 survivors had
cystectomy performed and none showed residual
disease in the bladder or lymph nodes.  the com-
plications of radiotherapy presented were not
considered to be excessive.
we believe that radiotherapy should be the
initial treatment for patients with infiltrative
carcinoma of the bladder.  the survivals pre-
sented at 2 years are better than those quoted for
radical cystectomy (whitmore and marshall)
and useful bladder function is preserved for the
majority of survivors.  we reserve cystectomy for
specific indications.
.I 781
.W
polyposis of colon
as seen in
private practice
familial polyposis of the colon may
present itself in a variety of clinical en-
tities.  from the cases discussed in this
paper the following forms may be enu-
merated:
(1) an asymptomatic phase with dis-
crete polyposis.
(2) a mildly asymptomatic stage
with diffuse polyposis.
(3) a premalignant phase with car-
cinomas in situ.
(4) grossly malignant phase char-
acterized by anemia and carcinomatosis,
possibly of multicentric origin.
to secure a complete cure it is im-
perative that the clinician discover and
the surgeon treat the disease in its pre-
malignant state.
worthwhile palliative results may be
obtained by surgery in incurable cases
by extensive resection of the primary
lesions and subsequent resection of any
recurrences or metastasis, whether local
or distant by second and third looks is
necessary.
special emphasis should be paid to
the emotional problems of the patients.
an encouraging, sympathetic attitude on
the part of the surgeon is essential and
rewarding.
.I 782
.W
systemic chemotherapy
for cns metastases
of solid tumors
of the 13 cases studied, remissions were ob-
tained in eight.  this 62% remission rate is not
significant because of the number of variables
present.  however, we believe that chemother-
apy for this type of patient is indicated, as sup-
ported by the reported data.  the results suggest
that the blood supply to solid tumors is different
from that of tumors associated with hematopoi-
etic disorders.  the latter respond very poorly,
if at all, to systemic therapy.  although we were
not able to measure the central nervous system
(cns) lesions exactly, the regression of the
cns symptomatology was significant.  in pa-
tients who had other demonstrable metastatic
disease, those lesions also regressed.  with this
evidence we feel that patients with metastatic
cns lesions, even when these have recently
resulted in paralysis or seizures, should be con-
sidered for systemic chemotherapy.
.I 783
.W
combined 5-fluorouracil and supervoltage
radiation therapy in the palliative manage-
ment of advanced gastrointestinal cancer:
a pilot study
malcolm y. colby, margaret a. holbrook
5-fluorouracil in combination with supervoltage radiation
therapy was employed in the palliative treatment of 44 pa-
tients with advanced gastrointestinal carcinoma.
a total dose of from 40 to 50 mg. per kilogram of body
weight of 5-fluorouracil given by rapid intravenous injection
at the onset of radiation therapy was found to be relatively
safe and tolerable.  larger doses were associated with excessive
toxicity and mortality.
a sufficient number of patients achieved objective and
subjective palliation to justify controlled study of the possible
additive or synergistic role that 5-fluorouracil may have when
combined with radiation therapy.
.I 784
.W
palliation by radiotherapy
the purpose of radiotherapy in the management
of cancer of the lung is first to cure the disease;
second, to prolong useful and comfortable exist-
ence; and third, to provide comfort and relief of
suffering to those who are symptomatic and in-
curable.
cancers of the lung vary quite widely in their
response to radiation.  those of glandular origin,
the adenocarcinoma, are more often than not of
modest susceptibility and sometimes quite resis-
tant.  the very undifferentiated, the so-called oat-
cell cancers, are often of exquisite sensitivity, re-
sponding to irradiation almost like lymphomas.
most cancer of the lung, however, is squamous-cell
carcinoma and as such may be considered to be
moderately radiosensitive in much the same order
of magnitude as squamous-cell carcinoma of the
skin, cervix or larynx, and should, in theory, be
curable by this means in the same degree.  unfor-
tunately, this has to date not been found to be
true.  the reasons are principally two: first and
foremost, by the time a diagnosis is made, cancer
of the lung has more often than not, estimated at
80% and more, spread beyond the site of origin,
thus making cure by any effective means presently
available unlikely.  second, the substrate in which
the cancer grows, the lung, tolerates radiation less
well than do the tissues which surround the highly
radiocurable epithelial cancers such as carcinoma of
the skin, cervix, and larynx, thus making an un-
favorable therapeutic ratio.
.I 785
.W
chlorambucil-prednisolone therapy
for disseminated breast carcinoma
over a 7 1/2-year period, 71 patients with
disseminated breast cancer were treated
with combined alkylating-agent-cortico-
steroid therapy.  chlorambucil and pred-
nisolone were the drugs of choice.  these
agents, administered orally, produced no
serious or disagreeable toxic effects.  twen-
ty-four patients (33.8%) had objective
regression of six months' duration or long-
er; average survival time after therapy
was 23.9 months.  results are statistically
similar to those obtained with sex-steroid
and endocrine-ablation therapy, presum-
ably because the three modalities have a
similar mechanism of action, ie. suppres-
sion and/or eradication of endogenous
estrogen.
.I 786
.W
recent advances in the treatment of
cancer of the esophagus
whether combining surgery and supervoltage radiation therapy will
noticeably improve the 5-year survival rate for carcinoma of the esopha-
gus remains to be seen.  it is encouraging, however, to observe at the time
of operation that the previously irradiated esophagus is firmly encased in
fibrous tissue, which gives the impression that the danger of disseminating
tumor at the time of resection is diminished.  in addition, the fibrosis sug-
gests that the tumor that had spread locally, beyond the limits of surgical
excision, may have been destroyed.
.I 787
.W
cyclophosphamide in the management of
advanced bronchial carcinoma
forty patients suffering from advanced bronchial
carcinoma who were treated with cyclophospha-
mide are reviewed.  the selective effect of the drug
in tumours of the oat-cell type is noted.  it is
suggested that relapses which occur while the
patient is on oral maintenance therapy may be
controlled by a further intravenous course of
cyclophosphamide.
full clinical and statistical details of all the
patients referred to in this paper are available on
application to the author.
.I 788
.W
esophageal obstruction
the use of an endoscopically inserted tube in the
care of esophageal carcinoma
our experience suggests that the en-
doscopic insertion of intraluminal tubes
provides a relatively simple and reason-
ably safe method of dealing with some
of the problems which arise in the man-
agement of patients with esophageal car-
cinoma.  such tubes would appear to be
of particular use in handling the prob-
lems of obstruction and regurgitation in
patients with incurable tumors, but may
also be helpful in preparing severely
debilitated patients with esophageal car-
cinoma to withstand the rigors of opera-
tion and radiation therapy.
.I 789
.W
palliative radiation therapy
the care of the patient with "incurable" cancer may be
directed by physicians of various backgrounds and per-
suasions.  if this physician has little experience in such
care, he is prone to be influenced by still prevalent atti-
tudes of therapeutic futility or by equally unjustified
premature claims for widely publicized methods recent on
the scene.  surgery and radiation therapy remain the
dominant treatment forces for the patient with cancer.  it
is unfortunate that lack of demonstration of good radiation
therapy has led to unjustified condemnation of the method
rather than the user, with resultant loss to the patient's
welfare.  to obtain maximal benefit, radiation therapy
must be allowed indications and contraindications like any
therapeutic modality.  these must be the responsibility of
the therapeutic radiologist.  application of realistically
stringent indications and contraindications does not lessen
useful accomplishment, but avoids unnecessary morbidity,
waste of time, money and effort, and delay in seeking
suitable treatment.
.I 790
.W
carcinoma of the middle ear
the results of radiotherapy in a relatively large
number of cases of carcinoma of the middle ear
are reported.  the crude 5 year survival rate of 100
cases is 29%.  there is no difference in survival
between those cases who had a preliminary
mastoidectomy and those who did not.  the use of
megavoltage x-rays probably increases the survival
rate.
.I 791
.W
sustained palliation in
ovarian carcinoma
management of 64 cases of advanced
ovarian carcinoma has been analyzed.
an attempt is made to compare the
value of radiation and the value of chloram-
bucil, using salvage time and sustained pal-
liation as end points.
chlorambucil, an outpatient oral medi-
cation, appears to be as efficacious as ra-
diation in advanced ovarian carcinoma.
chlorambucil may be used before or
after irradiation therapy.
pleural and peritoneal effusion respond
favorably to chlorambucil 80% of the time.
the possibility of using a different
dosage schedule is discussed.
.I 792
.W
clues in dealing with
cancer patients
it is clear that the patient with cancer changed
his pattern of communication at different stages of
the disease.  these patterns in communication were
the basis or clues for the doctor and paramedical
personnel to consider in making total care more
effective.  the bedside clinician of past days knew
these clues instinctively in his wise ministrations.
thanks to a gifted social worker these have been
now made manifest to help all of us in dealing
with cancer and perhaps other chronic relentless
diseases.
.I 793
.W
radon and radioactive seed volume implants
for extensive recurrent vaginal-pelvic cancer
radioactive seed volume implants for
extensive recurrent vaginal-pelvic cancer
result in extended control of otherwise
untreatable disease.  immediate and early
reactions are practically nonexistent.  late
complications are also rare, the most
serious being severe hemorrhagic cystitis
in 2 of the author's 13 patients.
.I 794
.W
terminal cancer nursed at home
perhaps the most difficult part of mrs. brown's illness,
was that she herself knew all about it.  she had been a
nurse for most of her working life, and was only too aware
of the deteriorating process of carcinoma.  there were
times, of course, when she would try to deceive herself, say-
ing that there was always hope that something new in the
way of treatment would turn up, and life would then be
worth living again.
.I 795
.W
advanced cancer of the breast
treated primarily with irradiation
the five-year results in 109 patients
treated primarily with irradiation for
cancer of the breast, mostly in the late
stages, have been analyzed.
in all cases, the initial intent was to
control with x radiation alone the primary
tumor involving the breast and its entire
lymphatic drainage.  irradiation remained
essentially the sole method of treatment in
84 cases.  postirradiation mastectomy was
performed in the 25 other patients, who
initially had been considered inoperable.
the plan of treatment has consisted of a
single continuous course of radiation ther-
apy, protracted over a period of seventy-
five to one hundred days and administered
in 3 closely integrated phases.  tissue
doses, superficial and deep, must be
brought to the highest levels required for
maximum biological effects within the
tolerance of the structures involved.
the immediate effects of irradiation
alone have been remarkable.  the re-
gression of neoplastic manifestations in the
breast and palpable nodes, the degree of
healing of ulcerated carcinoma, and the
incidence of recurrence have been re-
corded and assessed to determine the
efficacy of treatment.
.I 796
.W
the management of disseminated
cancer of the breast
when mammary cancer has spread to tissues beyond
the breast and axilla, the disease is incurable by present
day methods.  however the patient may be greatly helped
and tumor growth retarded by skillful and sympathetic
application of irradiation, surgical ablation, hormone ad-
ministration, and chemotherapy.  given in conjunction
with analgesics, sedatives, and ataractic drugs, these
measures can frequently reduce disability and pain and
prolong the period of useful comfortable life.
.I 797
.W
toilet training of an autistic eight-year-old through
conditioning therapy: a case report
operant conditioning techniques have been successfully
used in the treatment of a wide variety of be-
havioral problems including hysterical blindness (brady
and lind, 1961), tics (barrett, 1962), psychotic
symptoms (lindsley, 1956; 1960, 1961), reading disabilities
(rachman, 1962) stuttering (flanagan et. al.,
1958) enuresis (mowrer and mowrer, 1938; lovibond,
1961, 1963a, b) and encopresis (neale, 1963;
madsen, 1965).  neale (1963) successfully treated three
out of four encopretic children using operant
training techniques.  in the case of one 9-yr-old boy, with
an 18 month history of encopresis, going to the
toilet was rewarded by a candy, praise and recording the
event in a special book in the boy's presence.
soiling was not inadvertently rewarded (e.g. attention) or
punished; the boy would be given a clean pair
of pants without comment.  neale reports that response to
treatment was rapid and complete and 6 months
after toilet training there had been no relapse in bowel habits.
procedures similar to those used by neale were used in
the case reported here.  positive and, in a
small number of instances, negative reinforcement were used
to toilet train an 8-yr-old boy diagnosed by
a child psychiatrist/neurologist as having infantile autism.
.I 798
.W
incidence of symptoms of early infantile autism in
subsequently hospitalized psychiatric patients
this study was concerned with the
relationship between the occurrence dur-
ing the first two years of life of symptoms
of early infantile autism, as retrospective-
ly reported by the mothers of s's and
subsequent adjustment.  the mothers of
69 unmarried young hospitalized psychia-
tric patients were interviewed to deter-
mine the presence or absence of each of
28 different signs contained in a check
list.  the signs represent characteristic
features that are reportedly often found
in conjunction with early infantile autism.
as a control, 50 mothers of high school
students residing in the community and
presenting no significant adjustment prob-
lems were questioned in regard to the
very same items.
the results indicated that there were
significantly more symptoms reported for
patients than for normals, and that this
finding applied to the overall number of
symptoms as well as to several subcate-
gories of symptoms.  the items classified
under the heading of "social withdrawal"
appeared to be the most sensitive in dif-
ferentiating the groups.  it was also found
that 11 of the 28 signs distinguished be-
tween the patients and normals, with all
except one occurring more frequently in
the former group.  it was concluded that
a significant relationship existed between
the reported presence of symptoms that
are often associated with severe and early
ego impairment and subsequent status as
a mental hospital patient.  this study does
not provide any direct answer to the ques-
tion of what proportion of children with
infantile autism are later able to make an
adequate adjustment outside of a mental
hospital.
.I 799
.W
eeg abnormalities in early childhood schizophrenia:
a double-blind study of psychiatrically distrubed
and normal children during promazine sedation
eeg tracings during promazine sedation
were obtained on 58 children who had
autistic or symbiotic childhood psychosis.
for comparison eeg's were done under
identical conditions on 4 other groups of
children: 44 with chronic undifferentiated
schizophrenia; 37 non-psychotic children
with severe, acting-out behavior disorders;
10 with neuroses; and 13 psychiatrically
normal children.  final clinical diagnoses
were made without knowledge of the eeg
readings as determined for this study, and
the eeg's were all placed in random order
and read without any knowledge of the
clinical diagnosis.  eeg abnormalities ac-
cepted were focal slowing, focal spikes,
paroxysmal spikes and waves, and par-
oxysmal spikes and waves with independent
spikes.
among the 149 patients 51% had abnormal
records.  none of the psychiatrically normal
children had eeg abnormalities.  except
for the neurotics, the eeg abnormalities
were qualitatively and quantitatively sim-
ilar in the psychiatric patients.  the
most frequent abnormalities were ir-
regular paroxysmal spike and wave com-
plexes, often best seen during the
transition from wake to sleep.  of the 149
patients, 33% had this complex, either alone
or with independent spikes.  although these
complexes were most frequent in the au-
tistic-symbiotic group, the incidence was
not statistically significantly different from
the higher performing, chronic undiffer-
entiated schizophrenics who had communi-
cative speech or the non-psychotic children
with acting-out behavior disorders.
of the 58 autistic-symbiotic children, 19%
had seizures, which is similar to the 13%
seizure incidence in the remaining 91 psy-
chiatric patients.
whether the cerebral dysfunction im-
plied by this study is a primary disorder
or is secondary to some factor such as the
effect of prolonged anxiety on body chem-
istry cannot be decided at this time.  never-
theless, an organic concomitant has been
demonstrated in 51% of the psychiatrically
disturbed children.  by increasing the
amount of time included in the eeg sam-
ple, the incidence of electrical abnormalities
might be even higher.
.I 800
.W
on early infantile psychosis.
the symbiotic and autistic syndromes
in conclusion, i wish to state that the
core of child psychosis must
be sought in one or the other of the
described distortions of the sym-
biotic phase.  in the first case, what lay
at the heart of the psychotic dis-
turbance was the marked emotional
unavailability of the mother,
which alternated with a purely physical
extreme closeness during the
breast-feeding situations, and particularly
with the destructiveness of
the mother's unpredictable rage attacks.
the contrasting experiences
drove the child to the autistic warding
off of any human contact and
the de-animation of the world of reality.
constitutional factors could
not, in this case, be evaluated with any
degree of accuracy.
in the second case, it was, by contrast,
the mother's ever-presence
that created an unendurable instrusion
upon and interference with
the structuralization of the budding ego,
which constitutionally and
perhaps predispositionally may have been
very vulnerable.  this made
it impossible for the infant to experience
the normal alternation of
the gratification-frustration sequences at
his own pace; it also made
the process of individuation in the
separation-individuation period
one which was beset with abysmal panic.
in both instances, we can see that it was
primarily in the severe dis-
tortions of the normal symbiosis that the
child psychosis had its roots.
.I 801
.W
autopathy:follow-up of cases
the publication of two papers
recently in the acta paedopsychiatrica by
d. arn. van krevelen on the subject of "autistic
psychopathy", has stimulated the author
to present 5 cases which appear to conform to
his description.  the only value of this brief
contribution lies in the fact that they have all
been followed up for at least 10 years, and
this may give some idea of the eventual results
in this type of cases.
.I 802
.W
sensory dominance
in autistic imbecile children and controls
in a previous experiment (hermelin and
o'connor, 1964) it was found that autistic
and control imbecile children responded most
frequently to a light stimulus in conditions of
bimodal, simultaneous stimulation.  however,
the role of the relative intensity level of the
stimuli remained to be determined.  in the
present experiment a light and a sound, or a
light and a verbal command were presented
simultaneously in various intensity combina-
tions.  all responses, irrespective of the stim-
ulus to which they were made, were
rewarded.  autistic, mongol, and nonmongol
imbecile children were tested.  in addition to
a tendency for visual dominance results
showed that independent of modality, high
intensities affected all groups.  nonmongol
imbecile children also responded significantly
more frequently to the verbal than to the
sound stimulus, while the other two groups
did not.
.I 803
.W
dreaming sleep in autistic twins
each of 5-year-old identical autistic twins
was observed during one spontaneous all
night sleep session during which their
electroencephalogram, eye movement, heart
rate, and chin muscle potential were recorded.
these autistic twins showed a similar
patterning and amount of dreaming sleep to
each other and to that reported for normal
children of the same age.
.I 804
.W
twins discordant
for early infantile autism
a pair of heterozygous twins discordant
for early infantile autism is reported and the
relevant literature reviewed.  although mani-
fest organic factors were ruled out, the twins'
physical development was different.  a spe-
cific emotional etiology was not demon-
strated.  the few available twin studies offer
findings consistent with the hypothesis that
genetic factors are relevant to the develop-
ment of childhood autism.  evidence is also
presented that impaired acquisition of lan-
guage may have hereditary determinants.
a second set of probably homozygous
twins are reported who were also discordant
for autism.  this second case suggests that,
although genetic factors may play a part, in
some cases the syndrome of infantile autism
appears to be a reversible one.  in view of
this set of twins and of kanner's sibling data,
the role of genetic factors remains obscure,
and more twin studies properly documented
with blood typing are needed.
.I 805
.W
evaluation and treatment planning
for autistic children
infantile autism is considered to be a re-
action on the part of an immature organism
at a primitive and undifferentiated stage of
ego development.  little choice of defensive
reactions is available; the possibility of sub-
limation does not exist and, even though
other object relationships are gradually
developing, the mother is still the child's
primary object.  at this vulnerable develop-
mental stage, a wide range of pathological
circumstances, ranging from the most severe
family psychopathology to the most adventi-
tious physiological traumata or the most un-
fortunately malignant circumstances, may
constitute an acute or cumulative cata-
strophic stress.  the primitive organism
tends to respond to this overwhelming stress
with a paranoid reaction which is directed at
the mother (regardless of the actual etiologi-
cal variables) because the mother is still the
child's primary object.  we believe that the
child then responds with an autistic reaction
and shows varying degrees of simple with-
drawal, obsessional behavior, magical or de-
lusional thought processes, and consequent
disruption of developmental skills, speech,
and relationships with others.
many families can and do make every
effort to counter the paranoid reaction of the
child and do not respond to his rejection with
counterrejection and counterwithdrawal.
some of the child's autistic symptoms may
abate without formal treatment.  yet, since
the mother (and family) are the primary
objects of the child's paranoid attitude, it is
felt that formal therapeutic intervention is
necessary to modify the paranoid core of
the autistic reaction.
.I 806
.W
a twenty-five year view of
therapeutic results
thus this group of ten patients shows a complete range of
chronic schizophrenia from a bright pseudoneurotic never hospitalized,
to an inaccessible patient chronically hospitalized for 20 years.
physiological therapy in the form of metrazol-induced convulsions
given in the course of a puberty schizophrenic psychosis, has been
helpful to some by making them more accessible for the total treat-
ment program in the hospital or by raising their margin of tolerance
sufficiently so that they could live at home and attend public schools
at least for a time and at best, indefinitely.
several of the most regressed, deteriorated patients in state hospitals
for many years, have been brought back to some level of meaningful
living again by the current drug therapy program, and are still im-
proving.
now we have not determined who the sinner may be.  there are
many who will believe that the mother is always the sinner; is she
not schizophrenogenic?  there are others who will believe that the
individual himself is the sinner since, after all, is he not the one
whose behavior and fantasies are schizophrenic?  however, there will
be many of you attending this fifty-second annual meeting of the
american psychopathological association, who will judge the speaker
to be the sinner, for have i not given you this wealth of clinical ma-
terial without charts, graphs, or statistical evaluation?
.I 807
.W
group psychotherapy with preschool
psychotic children and collateral
group therapy of their parents:
a preliminary report of the first two years
a group approach in the treatment of preschool-aged psychotic children is
reported.  autism is a defense against loss of the symbiotic partner.  the
group of children penetrates this defense and forms a "group ego," which
constitutes one pole of a new therapeutic symbiosis from which
separation-individuation can occur.
.I 808
.W
autistic reactions in early childhood:
differential diagnostic considerations
the term "autism" is frequently used today
in the differential diagnosis of the severe
emotional disturbances of early childhood.
however, to label a child as "autistic"
presents some formidable problems with
regard to definition of the term, the specific
etiological-diagnostic implications, and
treatment considerations for any given
child so designated.  the purpose of this
paper is to briefly review some of the
historical psychiatric background of the term
"autism", its more recent ramifications,
and our clinical experiences in this field.
.I 809
.W
infantile autism: a family approach
the autistic child appears to be unable to integrate or to respond to
stimuli, both from an internal source, the body, as well as from external
sources, such as human contact.  we have noted in the children at our
residential treatment center how in their preliminary period with us they
appear to be unaware of their body; they give the impression of being
insensitive to pain, display little autoerotic behavior, inflict injury on
themselves, such as hitting their heads against objects and biting their own
bodies, with little outward display of distress.  in working with these
children in therapy, one of the guideposts for change and for growth is a
display on the child's part of an increased body awareness and autoerotic
behavior.  for example, one child who developed polio during his early stay
at the clinic residence did not communicate this to anyone and it was only
made known by observing the child's dragging one leg (memorial guid-
ance clinic, 1959).  later, he was able to point to his body and to indicate
pain.  another child, who at first seemed to be quite unaware of both himself
and others, concurrent with his growing display of affective expression
toward the therapist also manifested pleasure through genital stimulation,
was quite ticklish, and when injured would display the area of pain quite
readily.
.I 810
.W
an analysis of the language of fourteen
schizophrenic children
fourteen schizophrenic (autistic) children were studied by means of detailed
behavioural histories and observations.
the language recorded in history and observation protocols was analysed and
compared with available data on normal children.
all schizophrenic children were grossly retarded in their language development
and all measures of this correlated highly with a previous overall clinical
assessment of the severity of illness.
the most striking abnormalities in the language of the children studied were
stereotyped repetition of utterances appropriate to an earlier developmental
level or to a previous environmental context, accompanied by a lack of normal
expressions of curiosity and of responsiveness to changing environmental cues.
.I 811
.W
a behavioural and electroencephalographic
study of autistic children
short biographies are given of 10 children,
age 3 to 6 years, diagnosed as suffering from
kanner's syndrome (early infantile autism).
an analysis was made of the free-field acti-
vities of these children compared with a group
of normal children of similar age.  electro-
encephalographic studies were also carried out
on all 10 children, and in two it was possible
to carry out simultaneous behavioural and
eeg observations by means of telemetry.
the children were observed for three minute
periods in four environments of varying
complexity: a. an empty room; b. the same
room with toy wooden blocks present; c.
blocks plus passive adult; d. blocks plus active
adult.  except in a the visual fixations and
manipulatory activities were of significantly
shorter duration in the autistic children than
in the normals, lacked clear 'cut-off' points
and showed relatively little variability between
environments.  the autistic children as a
whole showed virtually no constructive play in
contrast with the normals, though more
time was spent in contact with play materials in
the social environments.  changes in the
time spent in locomotion, gesturing, block-play
and manipulation of other objects in the
environment showed that the autistic children
were acutely responsive to changes in their
environment, including the presence of the social
stimulus.  if the autistic children were
subdivided into those who characteristically showed
stereotypies and those who did not, the
latter sub-group showed a behaviour structure which
was very similar to that of the normals,
whereas the stereotypy sub-group was clearly
differentiated from both the normal children
and the non-stereotypy sub-group.
eight autistic children had waking eeg
records characterized by low voltage irregular
activity without any established rhythms;
one child, a record containing irregular alpha
and another unstable theta activity.  two of
the children with 'flat' laboratory eegs showed
more rhythmic, higher voltage records when
their eegs were telemetred in environment a.
they also showed less stereotyped behaviour.
in environments b and d they showed pro-
gressively more irregular eeg activity and
more stereotypy.
the hypothesis is advanced that autistic
children are in a chronically high state of physio-
logical arousal.  the findings of the present
study and those of other workers are discussed
with respect to this hypothesis.
.I 812
.W
the autistic child in the school and the
school-nurse teacher responsibility
autistic children demonstrate a more persistent pattern of retreating
from reality than is apparent in those children categorized as normal.
some psychologists have established the cause of symptoms in the autistic
child as extreme anxiety which forces withdrawal from social contact.
such anxiety is reported to have its initial occurrance during the age
range of one to five years.  a sense of security which is considered es-
sential for a child is gained through overt manifestations of love, care and
approval of those adults most closely associated with him.  when this
need is not satisfied, the child's attempts at self-realization and esteem
are deterred or thwarted, and a state of anxiety may result.  the severity
of the anxiety may be the forerunner of a schizophrenic disorder.  such
a condition can develop in a child, an adolescent or an adult.  schizo-
phrenia, a serious mental illness, is considered to be a major cause for
admitting patients to mental institutions.
another school of thought has placed infantile autism in the category
of a disturbance resulting from abnormalities of development during the
intrauterine period.  such a congenital condition is not categorized as
mental retardation.
yet another concept of autism conceives of the problem as the absence
of an innate ability or capacity for developing meaningful contacts with
other people.  a detachment of varying degrees persists where human
contacts are concerned.
.I 813
.W
the autistic child
the conditions most frequently mistaken
for autism are speech disorder, brain damage
and mental deficiency, each a prominent
symptom of the psychotic child.  careful his-
tory and close observation to disclose symp-
toms of withdrawal, lack of ego, compulsion
for sameness, and displays of intelligence
give incomplete clues to the diagnosis.
the etiology of autism is uncertain.  sev-
eral factors seem significant.  the important
role of organic damage of the brain is under-
scored by the coincidence of epilepsy, eeg
and neurological abnormalities in these chil-
dren.  in our series seizures of various types
occurred in 25%, eeg abnormalities in 58%,
and minor neurological deficits in 70% of
the cases.  environmental factors are quite
obviously important in many instances.  the
emotional and behavioral pattern of the par-
ents toward the infant is often incriminated.
separation, inattention, coldness, rejection,
etc. have been found in many situations.  fa-
milial incidence of psychoses is low; so is
that of autism in siblings.
.I 814
.W
shadow therapy
shadow therapy was developed at sunland
training center in gainesville, florida, because of communica-
tion difficulties with disturbed, psychotic children.  it was con-
jectured that subjects would reveal their anxieties and conflicts
more readily in a simulated night situation.
the therapy was conducted in a darkroom with projector
light used to produce silhouettes and their accompanying
shadows as additional stimuli.  twelve subjects attended.  in
this article, the reaction of a child who was autistic and severely
disturbed is used as an illustration of subject reactions.  in the
playroom, he exhibited static behavior; in the darkroom, re-
gressive-transcendential behavior.  he also transcended his usual
level of vocalizing and socializing.
.I 815
.W
language training in the treatment
of the autistic child
functioning on a retarded level
a preliminary study to
determine the effect of language and
speech therapy on the development of
communication and the lessening of un-
relatedness in a group of non-verbal,
autistic children functioning on a retarded
level is reported.  on the basis of the re-
sults of the study, it is suggested that the
inclusion of language and speech therapy
techniques be considered in developing a
treatment program for such children.
.I 816
.W
the convergence and interaction of visual,
auditory, and tactile responses in human
nonspecific cortex
the relation between the electrical responses in the human brain and
mental processes of integration and association is perhaps the most chal-
lenging of all the problems facing neurophysiologists today.  until quite
recently the prospect of unifying physiological and psychological concepts
by electro-encephalographic (eeg) techniques seemed to be receding
because of the baffling complexity of the intrinsic electrical rhythms, and
this difficulty has still not been overcome.  the most intriguing, and at
the same time most elusive, of the properties of these rhythms is that,
although often remarkably constant in their variations with respect to
time, they fluctuate also, in a much less regular manner, within the three
dimensional space of the brain.  the continuous analysis and display of
such a phenomenon presents serious difficulties, and no method has yet
given entirely satisfactory results.
the incentive to construct adequate equipment and to design and per-
form crucial experiments is undoubtedly limited by the uncertainty as
to whether the information likely to be obtained in this way is essential
to understanding brain mechanisms; few experimenters imagine that it
would be sufficient.
.I 817
.W
infantile autism and the schizophrenias
in a paper published in 1943, entitled "au-
tistic disturbances of affective con-
tact," i reported from the children's psychi-
atric service of the johns hopkins hospital
observations of 11 children (8 boys and 3
girls) who had in common a pattern of be-
havior not previously considered in its
striking uniqueness.  the symptoms were
viewed as a combination of extreme alone-
ness from the beginning of life and an anx-
iously obsessive desire for the preservation
of sameness.  i concluded the discussion by
saying: "we must assume that these chil-
dren have come into the world with an
innate inability to form the usual, biologi-
cally provided affective contact with people,
just as other children come into the world
with innate physical and intellectual handi-
caps.  if this assumption is correct, a further
study of our children may help to furnish
concrete criteria regarding the still diffuse
notions about the constitutional components
of emotional reactivity.  for here we seem to
have pure-culture examples of inborn au-
tistic disturbances of affective contact."
in my search for an appropriate designa-
tion, i decided in 1944, after much groping,
on the term early infantile autism, thus
accentuating the time of the first manifesta-
tions and the children's limited accessibility.
.I 818
.W
autistic children
autism is a form of childhood schizophrenia.  a sudden
separation from his mother or traumatic shock in
early life causes the child to reject the world of nor-
mal relationships.  leading him back to the original
traumatic situation is part of the treatment described
in this article.
.I 819
.W
gilles de la tourette syndrome in an autistic child
a case of gilles de la tourette syndrome
presenting an early infantile autism is
described.  the treatment applied is outlined.
.I 820
.W
psychodrama for disturbed children
psychodrama is especially adaptable to the treat-
ment of mentally ill children.  it evokes a degree
of spontaneity and involvement that is difficult to
attain with many group therapies, and it offers situa-
tions in which the children can participate as actors
or as observers.  competition and restriction are
minimal: the child can do what comes naturally.  in-
deed, much of children's natural play is in the form
of dramatic activity.  their make-believe is, how-
ever, more intense than acting, for a child becomes
the person or thing he pretends to be: a fireman,
an indian, a horse, a tiger.
.I 821
.W
the speech and language abilities of
emotionally disturbed children
the speech and language disorders of
these severely disturbed children can be
divided into two categories which relate
to the type of psychiatric disturbance.
the autistic-schizophrenic children used
bizarre forms of language or did not use
communicative language at all.  the non-
autistic-schizophrenic, the neurotic, the
primary behaviour disorder, and the
minimally brain-damaged children as a
group, had similar speech and language
problems to normal children but of a
more severe and frequent nature.  their
problems were predominantly in the
areas of speech and language develop-
ment, articulation, rate of speech and
fluency.  the children with primary be-
haviour disorders had the more severe
speech and language problems.
.I 822
.W
a study of childhood schizophrenia
and early infantile autism
(part i--description of the sample)
following a period of observation of
three months' duration, a group of twelve
autistic schizophrenic children were se-
lected for a treatment program.  the
group was selected on criteria which
would allow a reasonable chance of suc-
cessful treatment in a group homo-
geneous enough to allow statistical con-
siderations to be valid.
younger age, average intellectual func-
tioning, presence of an intact family in
or near to metropolitan toronto and a
firm diagnosis of autistic schizophrenia
were the limiting factors.
rather distinct differences were noted
in this treatment group as opposed to the
larger observation group.  the dis-
tinguishing characteristic was undoubted-
ly the speech abnormalities present.
.I 823
.W
discussion sur les pseudo-tumeurs osseuses
des hemophiles
doctors queneau and josso each described one
case of pseudo-tumour of the calcaneum analagous
to that described by trillat and favre-gilly; they
demonstrated x-rays; dr. alagille referred to a
haemophilic cyst of the maxilla and dr. favre-gilly
to a cyst of the perineum; dr. kugler had seen a
case where an erroneous diagnosis of osteosarcoma
had been made.
.I 824
.W
the effect of joint position on the pressure
of intra-articular effusion
it is known that joints with symptomatic effusions are held spontaneously in
characteristic positions and that movement of these joints increases pain.  in
the study reported here, a correlation was made between the hydrostatic
pressure of a joint effusion and the joint's position.  the results indicate a
possible relationship between intra-articular pressure and pain.
.I 825
.W
haemophilic blood cyst
a mongol boy of ten, a known haemophiliac, was seen in the orthopaedic
department of southmead hospital in may 1962 with a swelling of the left foot.
the parents were aware of a steady increase in size since the swelling was
first noticed two months before.  on examination, a cystic swelling was seen to
occupy the forefoot, the skin on the dorsum being stretched over it and a
dusky red in colour (fig. 1).  radiographs showed destruction of the proximal
two-thirds of the third metatarsal bone, an appearance consistent, it was
thought with destruction from within by an expanding lesion (fig. 2).  the
diagnosis of a haemophilic blood cyst was made.
.I 826
.W
treatment and prevention of chronic haemorrhagic
arthropathy and contractures in haemophilia
orthopaedic treatment of joint deformities in thirteen patients with
haemophilia is reviewed over a period of seven years.
forms of treatment discussed include open operation, manipulation under general
anaesthesia, continuous traction, splintage and physiotherapy.  the amount of
intravenous therapy required for each form of treatment is indicated.
in discussing prevention of joint deformity the histories of a further eighteen
patients have been taken into account.  it is concluded that initially painless
haemarthroses provide the main threat to joint deformity in haemophilia.
the best preventive treatment is early immobilisation followed by prolonged
splintage and physiotherapy; intravenous therapy with antihaemophilic factor
plays a less important role here than in other forms of haemorrhage.
evidence is presented that joint deformity in severe haemophilia can often be
entirely avoided.
.I 827
.W
osteopatia in emofilia
the aa. present the case material of the literature and one
personal remark of extrarticular osteopathy in
hemophilia.  they examine the anatomic and clinical picture of
the illness in its most important and less known
peculiarities and they dwell upon the curative medico-surgical
problems of the affection.
.I 828
.W
la plasmatherapie a minima dans le traitement de la
douleur des hemarthroses hemophiliques
some fifty clinically similar cases of hemophilic hemarthrosis were, after
immobilization, either treated with placebo and plasma perfusion or else with
corticoids and analgesics.
a very small quantity of plasma is sufficient to stop the pain for the
following few hours.
it is attempted to give a physio-pathologic explanation which would seem in
accord with the pathogenic studies on hemophiliac by r. marx et al.
.I 829
.W
effet analgesique immediat des injections de plasma
pour hemarthroses recentes du genou des hemophiles
a single injection of 20 ml of lyophilized fresh plasma per kg body weight is
proposed as a treatment in recent cases of knee hemarthrosis with an
important distension of the capsule, so as to achieve hemostasis, and reduce
the evolutive period.  pain is always acute and permanent in such cases of
hemarthrosis; it subsides during the plasma injection, or immediately
afterwards.
.I 830
.W
hip disarticulation in a
patient with hemophilia
disarticulation of the hip in a hemophiliac patient
was performed because of a severe osteomyelitis
involving the entire right femur and was lifesaving.
the following are suggestions for hemotologic man-
agement: (1) infected wounds in hemophiliac pa-
tients should be left open initially.  (2) electro-
cautery should not be used in an infected wound of
a hemophiliac patient.  (3) a safe fibrinogen prepa-
ration potent in the antihemophilic factor is now
available in this country and is a highly significant
advance in the surgical treatment of hemophilia.
.I 831
.W
haemophilia in sweden
vii. incidence, treatment and prophylaxis of
arthropathy and other musculo-skeletal
manifestations of haemophilia a and b
the clinical material consisted of 242 of the 308 known haemophiliacs
(a and b) in sweden.  the investigation included clinical examination of
all major joints in 95 of 116 patients with severe haemophilia, in 38 of
65 patients with moderate haemophilia, and in 24 of 127 patients with
mild haemophilia, and roentgen examination of practically all joints
found to be abnormal at the clinical examination.  in addition information
about 7 patients with severe haemophilia, 21 with moderate haemophilia,
and 57 with mild haemophilia was obtained by questionnaire only.
the degree of arthropathy (grades 2, 3 and 4) was classified largely
according to depalma and cotler (1956).  evaluation of general disability
was made with regard to ability to manage (walk, dress, eat, toilet) with-
out help.  this latter evaluation comprised also extra-articular manifesta-
tions of haemophilia.
.I 832
.W
interet de la radiotherapie dans les hemarthroses
recidivantes du genou chez l'hemophile
radiotherapy was delivered at a dose of 100 r
repeated from 7 to 10 times, to 22 knees of haemo-
philiac children presenting recurring arthropathies.
irradiation had no harmful effect on growth of
patients; it was beneficial in two thirds of the cases,
reducing considerably the number per annum of
haemarthrosis onsets; one third of the patients
showed no significant result: the number of onsets
was the same in the following year.
totally the average of infirmary stays due to knee
haemarthrosis was 175 days in the year before radio-
therapy and 25 days in the following year.
the authors think that these results justify this
therapeutic method.
.I 833
.W
discussion sur les donnees radiologiques
dans les arthropathies des genoux
professor marchal acts as moderator.
dr. le coeur wonders if the fringed appearance of
condyles has really a pathological significance; that
appearance could be normal in young children, but,
in the opinion of dr. queneau, it seems to be patho-
logical in older children.
it seems to dr. favre-gilly and dr. queneau that
scalariform traits occur more frequently in haemo-
philiac children than in normal ones.
dr. le coeur thought that fibrillary decalcification
was the ultimate stage of decalcification, whereas
dr. favre-gilly has the impression that it represents
in haemophiliac subjects an early stage anterior to
homogeneous decalcification.
according to brinkhous, densification of synovial
membranes are a result of an infiltration of the joint
cartilage due to haemosideraemia; this is also the
opinion of dr. favre-gilly and dr. izarn.
dr. izarn asks if geodes are caused by intra-
osseous haemorrhages or necroses; dr. queneau and
dr. de mourgues think that anatomical data con-
cerning haemophiliac subjects are insufficient for
that question to be answered.
.I 834
.W
etude radiographique des genoux de 100 hemophiles
de 7 a 15 ans
radiographic examination of the knee were syste-
matically performed in 100 haemophiliac subjects
aged from 7 to 15 years, 64 of whom had a bilateral
haemarthrosis, 30 had only one knee affected and
6 were uninjured.
an intra-articular opacification, observed in
29 knees, corresponded to a recent haemarthrosis.
densification of the synovial membrane was ob-
served in 25 knees and corresponded to iron
deposits.
an interlinear pinch was present in 52 knees.
erosions of articular surfaces are especially fre-
quent (78 knees) or homogeneous (28 knees).
hypertrophy of condyles or knee-caps, broadening
of intercondylian space, crushing of internal tibial
disk, genu valgum and posterior subluxation of tibia
are osseous deformations that are encountered.
atrophy of femur diaphysis explains the frequency
of fracture of femur.
some of these aspects seem to occur early (inter-
linear pinch, erosion of the surfaces), others are
tardier (geodes, decalcification).
a relation between the intensity of abnormal radio-
logical findings and the severity of sequelae does
not always exist, but one can observe major radio-
logical alterations only when there is a major bio-
logical disturbance.
.I 835
.W
blood vascular disorders in
connection with the nose,
throat and ear
these disorders include (1) those having lesions
primarily in the nose, throat or ear, and (2) those
producing symptoms and signs in nose, throat
and/or ear only as a part of their symptomatology
and involve other organs as well.  we will con-
sider the lesions in connection with the nose,
throat and ear separately.
.I 836
.W
volkmann's ischaemia
volkmann's ischaemia is the name given to a sequence
of events originally described by volkmann in 1881.
basically the condition consists of the replacement of
the limb flexor muscles by fibrous tissue following injury or
occlusion of the main arterial supply of blood to these
muscles.  the condition is rare fortunately--mainly because
of improved methods of prevention.  the flexor muscles of
the toes are sometimes affected, but the commonest group of
muscles so damaged are the flexor muscles of the forearm.
total arterial occlusion to a limb for several hours usually
causes frank gangrene; partial or total occlusion for shorter
periods may give rise to ischaemic contracture.  the muscles,
being deprived of their blood supply, die and are sub-
sequently replaced by fibrous tissue.  like all scars, the fibrous
tissue contracts, producing the complete picture of
volkmann's ischaemic contracture.  the forearm is thin and
wasted, and the fingers are held in flexion owing to the
overall shortening of the flexor muscles.  in severe cases, if
the nerves are also affected or if the entire muscle mass is
replaced by fibrosis, the fingers may be totally paralysed
as well.
.I 837
.W
klinik der polyarthrosen
among the degenerative affections of joints
the symptoms of the arthrosis of
the joints of the fingers with heberden-nodes,
the bouchard-nodes of the inter-
digital joints, the polyarthrosis - on those subjects
coste and forestier wrote about
and how they were described by lffb too - and the
arthropathies of chronic gout are
more thoroughly discussed.  the rare conditions,
as the arthrotic changes in hemo-
philia, psoriasis and metabolic disorders are
mentioned.  a wider area is dedicated
to the differentiation between degenerative and
inflammatory diseases.  it is refer-
red to, that gout more often occurs in our days
and one is forced to calculate with
it more than some years ago.  it is also referred
to the significance of the serolo-
gical reactions for the differential diagnosis.
the most important diseases are
enumerated, which do not belong to degenerative
polyarticular affections of joints,
but which very often get mixed up with them.
.I 838
.W
major surgical procedures,
including amputation,
on a hemophiliac
various surgical procedures in a hemo-
philia a patient, including amputation above
the knee, are reported.  human cohn fraction
i (fibrinogen/ahg) was used to ensure
normal hemostasis.  the patient's ability to
form a firm clot within a normal time was
measured and treatment was prescribed in
accordance with serial studies with the
thrombelastograph.
.I 839
.W
the prevention of crippling
in haemophilic children
children who are severely affected with haemo-
philia or christmas disease suffer repeated
haemorrhages into joints and muscles after trivial
injuries.  these episodes of bleeding produce
cumulative crippling.  the haemarthroses tend to be
recurrent; each episode produces some damage to
the joint surface and the immobility during con-
valescence leads to muscle weakness.  thus after
recovery the joint becomes increasingly liable to
renewed bleeding.  the deep muscle haematomata
can produce crippling by actual destruction of
muscle tissue, by pressure on important nerves or
arteries, by contractures which develop during
healing and by failure of resolution of the original
haematoma leading to chronic cyst formation.
.I 840
.W
throat and nose surgery
in patients with
constitutional haemostatic defects
successful surgery in patients with defective
haemostasis is becoming possible and it is of inter-
est to detail the problems encountered in nose and
throat surgery.
.I 841
.W
hemophilic arthropathy
jaromir priborsky, zora antalovska
the authors report their experience with joint
diseases in 54 patients suffering from hemo-
philia, 49 of them being cases of hemophilia a,
5 of hemophilia b.  21 patients were children
up to the age of 14 years.  bleeding into the joints
occurred in 66.6% of patients.  in the age
group over 14 years the cases of bleeding into
the joints were more frequent (78.8%) than
in the age group up to 14 years (47.7%).
there were no differences as to bleeding into the
joints and the seriousness of articular changes
between the cases of hemophilia a and hemo-
philia b.  in most cases the bleeding into the
joints began between the 6th and the 14th year
of age.  bleeding into the joints as the first
manifestation of a hemophilic condition occurred
only in 9.3% of patients; in most cases other
hemophilic manifestations preceded.  in spite of
this fact the joint manifestations were often
wrongly diagnosed as tuberculous arthritis, rheumatic
fever, progressive arthritis, and were treated
accordingly.  most usually the large joints (knee,
elbow, ankle) were affected with bleeding and in
them the changes were also the most serious.  the
joints of both halves of the body were
affected uniformly.  in most cases several joints were
affected while monoarticular localization
was observed in 16.6%.  the seriousness of articular
changes was dependent mainly on the
number of repeated bleedings into one and the same
joint, although other factors (weight bearing
of the joint, complexity of the joint, treatment) may be
of decisive importance in the individual
cases as well.
according to clinical (especially from
the functional point of view) and x-ray criteria the
articular findings were classified into three
groups: in the first group the function of the joint
is preserved, in the second limited and
in the third practically extinguished.  the following
laboratory tests were carried out: erythrocyte
sedimentation reaction, latex test for the rheu-
matoid factor, c-reactive protein, mecoprotein
tyrosine and weltmann's coagulation test.
the findings were normal even in cases of
irreparable articular changes unless acute bleeding
into the joint or in some other localization,
or some other complicating disorder was present
simultaneously.
the therapy of hemophilic arthropathy
remains troublesome owing especially to a frequent
occurrence of articular bleeding.
a close cooperation of the hematologist
and the rheumatologist or the orthopedist may con-
tribute to the improvement of the fate of
these patients.
.I 842
.W
prevention and treatment of joint deformity in haemophilia
experience in treating established joint deformities in 27 patients, and
preventing the development of deformtiy in 10 younger patients, during the last
8 years, has shown that there are two types of haemorrhage, which require
different treatment to prevent chronic deformity.
.I 843
.W
the haemophilic pseudotumour
or haemophilic subperiosteal haematoma
the case history of a haemophiliac in whom a large haematoma of the thigh was
treated by amputation of the limb is described.
examination of the available radiographs and of the histology led to the
conclusion that the cyst was subperiosteal in origin.
evidence is presented to support the hypothesis that haemophilic pseudotumours
are always associated with subperiosteal haemorrhage, and that those
haemophilic cysts which are confined to muscle have little or no effect on the
adjacent bone.
.I 844
.W
actinomycin d and the response to parathyroid hormone
actinomycin d inhibits the effect of
parathyroid hormone upon bone, as measured
by ca mobilization, without altering
its effects upon the renal excretion of
phosphate and ca in rats.
.I 845
.W
aspects of circadian periodic changes in
phosphorus metabolism in mice
kinetic studies on the p32 content of
mouse brain phosphorus fractions following
the intraperitoneal injection of p32-labeled
orthophosphate were performed during
two selected segments of the 24-hour time scale.
the results of these studies suggest
that the circadian periodicity in relative
specific activity of brain phospholipids
is probably a consequence of a variation in the extent
of p32 incorporation into brain
inorganic phosphate and is not indicative
of a periodicity in the rate of intermediary
phospholipid metabolism.  data on the postinjection
time course of the specific activities
of plasma inorganic phosphate, liver inorganic phosphate,
and liver phospholipid
suggest a similar explanation for
the circadian periodic changes in relative
specific activity of liver phospholipids.
a circadian rhythm of inorganic phosphate
concentration in mouse plasma is demonstrated.
consideration of a mathematical
model suggests that the observed within-day
variation in p32 distribution and the
circadian periodicity of phospholipid relative
specific activity in liver and brain
are a consequence of this periodicity in
plasma phosphate content.  a significant
within-day variation in total phosphorus
content of liver was observed.  the disturbance
of mice incident to p32 injection
has a marked effect on the plasma content
of inorganic phosphate and corticosterone.
.I 846
.W
specificity of the inhibition of tubular
phosphate reabsorption by certain amino-acids
the inhibition of tubular phosphate
reabsorption by certain amino-acids is a highly
specific one in which differentiation between
such closely related compunds as the
d and l isomer is clearly possible.
.I 847
.W
localization of phosphaturic effect of
parathyroid hormone in nephron of the dog
the renal mechanism and tubular site of the phosphaturic action of
parathyroid hormone were investigated by clearance and stop-flow
techniques in one intact and seven thyroparathyroidectomized
dogs.  administration of hormone caused a significant increase
in the excretion of phosphate without increasing the filtered
load.  stop-flow analysis indicated that in the absence of parathyroid
hormone most of the filtered phosphate was reabsorbed
in the proximal tubule, and that the hormone increased the
rate of phosphate excretion by inhibiting this reabsorptive
mechanism.  p32 injected during stopped flow showed no significant
transport across the renal tubule despite the presence of
excess parathyroid hormone.  significant p32 activity appeared
in the stop-flow collections simultaneously with the appearance
of new filtrate.  there was no evidence that parathyroid hormone
mediated a secretory process for phosphate excretion.
.I 848
.W
the regulation of growth hormone secretion
in the present communication we summarize
our investigations on the control
of secretion of hgh using radioimmunoassay
for the measurement of plasma
gh. the assumption, implied throughout this
presentation, that changes in
secretory rate are responsible for acute
changes in plasma concentration of
hgh appears reasonable since the
fluctuations in plasma hgh concentration
are often too rapid to be caused solely by
alterations in hormonal
degradation or excretion.  for slower changes
in plasma hgh concentration,
however, alterations in the rate of removal
of hormone from the body fluids
might play a contributory role.  however,
there is no evidence that important
changes occur in the rate of removal of
hgh from the circulation except in
patients who have developed antibodies
to hgh following treatment with hgh.
.I 849
.W
early infantile autism and receptor processes
the syndrome of early infantile autism is examined
as a function of deviation in
near-distance receptor usage.  these receptor
deviations are compared with normal
receptor hierarchies developing from near
to distance receptor dominance.  the
available information is consistent with the
view that early infantile autism involves
early sensory deprivation.  this sensory
deprivation results from an interaction
between a constitutional deficiency inhibiting
certain reticular arousal functions
and mothering tending to understimulation.
treatment of the young autistic child is suggested
including stimulation and communication
via the available near receptor
systems.  in the framework of sensory development,
directions for the study of early
diagnosis and treatment are indicated.
.I 850
.W
studies on compensatory renal hypertrophy.  i.  effect of
unilateral ureteral ligation and transection
data are presented comparing the relative rate
of compensatory renal hypertrophy
and hyperplasia of the control kidney of rats
following either unilateral ureteral
transection, ligation, or nephrectomy.  the growth
of the control kidney on the unoperated
side was strikingly slower after ureteral
transection and ligation when
compared with that resulting from the removal
of one kidney.  progressive hydronephrosis
was observed on the operated side following
ureteral transection and
ligation and was more pronounced in the latter.
degree of hypertrophy of the control
kidney showed a close correlation with degree and
duration of the hydronephrosis of
the kidney on the operated side.  these observations
have been interpreted as indicating
the operation of a control system regulating
kidney growth in response to
changes in some way related to kidney size.
.I 851
.W
studies of the changes in growth
and dna synthesis in the rat kidney
during experimentally induced
renal hypertrophy
there is a high rate of accumulation of
newly synthesized dna in the kidney after folic
acid injection, compared with the small increase
during the first few days after unilateral nephrectomy.
there is a large increase in the water content
of the kidney after folic acid which does not
occur after unilateral nephrectomy.  the changes
in the wet and dry weight and the rna and dna
content of the kidney have been compared after
administration of folic acid, unilateral nephrectomy
and unilateral nephrectomy followed by folic
acid 24 hr later in an attempt to study the nature
of these differences.  after unilateral nephrectomy
there was a steady increase in wet weight, dry
weight and rna content of the kidney, each parameter
reaching about 35 to 40% above normal by
14 days, by which time the dna content had increased
by only about 25%.  an increased rate of
dna synthesis was found between 2 and 4 days,
returning almost to normal by 7 days.  after folic
acid injection there were very large increases in
wet weight (60%), rna content (100%) and dna content
(70%) during the first 4 days accompanied by
a smaller increase in dry weight (30%).  thereafter
these parameters declined, relative to body weight,
returning almost to normal by 14 days.  the rate
of dna synthesis was greatly increased as early
as 24 hr after injection and reached a much higher
level than that found after unilateral nephrectomy,
before returning to the normal level by 7 days.
when unilateral nephrectomy was followed 24 hr
later by folic acid injection, the increases in
weight, nucleic acid content and rate of dna synthesis
were greater than at the corresponding
times after either treatment alone.  marked differences
were found in the labeling indices of kidney
cells after either unilateral nephrectomy or folic
acid injection.  the latter treatment resulted in very
large increases in all three zones of the kidney,
whereas after unilateral nephrectomy the responses
of the cortex and outer medulla were much lower,
with no significant increase in the inner medulla.
when both treatments were combined, the response
of the remaining kidney was similar to, though
more exaggerated than, that of the normal kidney
after folic acid injection.
.I 852
.W
renal and adrenal relationships
in compensatory hyperplasia
the compensatory renal hyperplasia that
normally follows unilateral nephrectomy
is abolished by bilateral adrenalectomy if
rats are maintained on fresh drinking
water, but is restored when saline drinking
water is provided or if such animals are
injected with doca.  the adrenals are also
important for the increased proliferation
caused by unilateral hydronephrosis.  these
experiments suggest that the role of the
adrenal cortex in renal hyperplasia may be to
secrete mineralocorticoids, which
promote the retention of sodium and thereby
stimulate cell division in the kidneys.
.I 853
.W
a genetic study of neonatal obstructive jaundice
58 children with extrahepatic biliary atresia, 7 with intrahepatic
biliary atresia and 50 with 'neonatal hepatitis' were analysed
concerning diagnostic criteria, natural history, familial, clinical
and pathological data.  in extrahepatic biliary atresia, there is no
evidence of a familial tendency, influence of maternal age, birth
order or disturbance of foetal development.  in 'neonatal hepatitis',
there were 4 consanguineous parents, suggesting a mutant
autosomal gene in homozygous form.  some infants with the genotype
for 'neonatal hepatitis' may manifest a very mild or a very severe
form, so, a diagnosis was not made.  an apparent excess of males
over females may be another evidence of failure of manifestation of
the genotype.  but 'neonatal hepatitis' may be a manifestation of
more than one disease.  in 'neonatal hepatitis' the birth weight
shows a marked decrease, perhaps as a sequence of disturbed liver
function in the foetus.
.I 854
.W
parathyroid extract-induced changes in the oxidation of citrate,
succinate and other organic acids by liver.
parathyroid extract (pte) or partially
purified parathyroid hormone administered in
vivo markedly altered the oxidation
in vitro by rabbit liver minces of citrate, -keto
glutarate-c, succinate-c, fumarate-c
and lactate.  with ca ++ present in the
incubation medium, minces from pte
treated animals produced more co and had
a greater o consumption than did control
minces.  this stimulation was due, in part
at least, to a more rapid decline in metabolic
activity of the control tissues.  when
ca++ was absent, total metabolism was
increased and the tissue derived from pte
treated animals was less active than the
control tissue.  the effect was detected as
early as 4 hr after injection (750 u/kg)
and could be elicited with as little as 200 u
(at 14 hr).  the action of pte could not
be duplicated by the injection of cacl into
the animal.  the data suggest that one effect
of treatment was a general inhibition of
oxidation.  the stimulation of metabolism
could be a consequence of this inhibition
or a separate unrelated alteration.
.I 855
.W
actinomycin and erythropoiesis and the production of erythropoietin in
mice.
in b6d2f female mice a single dose of 10
of actinomycin will suppress normal
erythropoiesis (fe erythrocyte uptake).  in
polycythemic mice 2 is enough to
prevent the stimulatory effect of 0.25 a units
of erythropoietin.  the curves of suppression
and recovery versus time support the
hypothesis that erythropoietin acts
for a short time in an early stage of
erythropoiesis; after this early stage developing
cells are no longer so sensitive to actinomycin.
recovery, even from repeated
doses, is rapid and adequate.  amounts of
actinomycin which are adequate to abolish
erythropoiesis do not prevent the new appearance
of erythropoietin in the plasma of
hypoxic mice.
.I 856
.W
the ultrastructure, histopathology, and
histochemistry of the parathyroid glands of pregnant
and nonpregnant cows fed a high level of vitamin d.
the parathyroid glands of pregnant and
nonpregnant cows were studied by light and
electron microscopy following the daily
feeding of 30 million units of vit d for 30
days and compared to untreated controls.
in both the pregnant and nonpregnant cows
the parathyroid glands became markedly
atrophic with a diminution in the amount of
parenchyma compared to the untreated controls.
after vit d feeding the number of
actively secreting dark and intermediate
chief cells was reduced and the percentage
of inactive (light) and atrophic chief cells
was increased.  the parathyroid glands
of the vit d-fed, nonpregnant cows were
dominated by severely atrophic chief cells.
these cells were characterized by their
highly irregular shape, shrunken nucleus
and cytoplasm, widened intercellular spaces
traversed by numerous cytoplasmic
processes, increased electron density, few
secretory granules, inactive ergastoplasm
and golgi complexes.  atrophic chief
cells were not present in the untreated
controls.  the predominating cell type in
the parathyroids of the vit d-fed pregnant
cows were the inactive chief cells.  in contrast
to the atrophic chief cells, they were
larger and more regular in shape with
relatively straight cell membranes.  they
were comparatively electron-transparent,
containing more glycogen and fewer
secretory granules.  organelles concerned
with protein synthesis and packaging into
secretory units were poorly developed.
inactive chief cells were observed only
occasionally in the parathyroid glands of
untreated pregnant cows where the actively
secreting dark and intermediate chief cells
predominated.
.I 857
.W
effect of heparin and parathyroid extract an acid phosphatase in bone.
   to test the theory that heparin
might stimulate acid
phosphatase in the bone of
young rats, heparin, pte,
or a combination of both were
injected.  after an appropriate
time interval acid phosphatase
activity of bone of
treated animals was compared
with controls.  it was
found that heparin enhanced
the pte-stimulated acid
phosphatase activity of both
calvaria and metaphysis but
not diaphysis.  the possible
relation of these facts to
the presence of lysosomes in
osteoclasts was discussed.
.I 858
.W
the isolation of thyrocalcitonin and study of its effects in the rat.
   the thyroid secretes a
polypeptide hormone (thyrocalcitionin)
which is effective
in lowering plasma calcium
and phosphate.  the hormone
can be extracted from
the thyroid of the rat, dog,
pig, goat, ox, and monkey.
the isolation of the hormone
from pig thyroid by a combination
of salt fractionation
and gel filtration is described.
one microgram of
the pure material is very
active in the rat.  thyrocalcitonin
remains effective after
parathyroidectomy, after
nephrectomy, after overdosage
with vitamin d, during vitamin
d deficiency, and during
calcium or magnesium deficiency.
its action is not prevented
by prior administration
of actinomycin d.  a
single injection does not change
soft tissue calcium but
infusion for 12 hr lowers cardiac
muscle calcium.  it is
concluded that this new thyroid
hormone acts on bone
and that it probably plays an
important role in normal physiology.
.I 859
.W
the effect of actinomycin d on parathyroid-induced
change in bone and kidney.
actinomycin d (amd), an antibiotic known to
inhibit dna-directed rna synthesis,
was used to study parathyroid-induced changes
in ca mobilization in vivo and in vitro
as well as renal excretion of ca and phosphate
in rats.  intact and parathyroidectomized
rats subjected to peritoneal lavage were
administered amd, and changes in
ca, p, and mg in lavage and serum were
examined.  amd consistently lowered the
ca transfer into the peritoneal rinse in both
the intact and parathyroidectomized animals,
although the drop in ca was more acute
if the animals were pretreated by subcutaneous
injections of amd than if amd was
administered as a component of the
rinse.  pretreatment of lavaged animals with
amd prevented the expected increase
in osteoclast numbers in the distal metaphysis
of the femur but had no effect if administered
as a component of the peritoneal rinse.
the incubation of femora removed
from both intact and parathyroidectomized
animals resulted in media ca levels that
were significantly lower after 4 hr. incubation
when amd was added in vitro.  however,
transfer of recently injected ca into
the incubation medium from animals
treated with amd was increased.  in addition,
parathyroidectomy of animals subsequent
to administration of amd still resulted
in expected changes in ca and p in the
urine although amd significantly increased p
excretion in both intact and parathyroidectomized
animals.  it was concluded that
endogenous parathyroid hormone requires
the continuous production of enzymes ultimately
responsible for its action on bone
and kidney, but that this action is not necessarily
related directly to the production
of m-rna.
.I 860
.W
inhibition by actinomycin d of bone resorption
induced by parathyroid hormone or vitamin a.
actinomycin d inhibits cell proliferation in
control cultures of embryonic rat bone
and prevents the stimulation of bone resorption
by parathyroid horome (pth) or vit.
a.  with a dose of 0.004 /ml. of actinomycin
d, pth effects are only partially inhibited
and this inhibition can be overcome
by increasing the dose of pth.  these
findings suggest that these agents act competitively.
.I 861
.W
j. clin. endocr. 1965, 25/4 (457-464).
antagonism between parathyroid extract and adrenal
cortical steroids in man.
metabolic balance studies were done in 2
patients with hypoparathyroidism who
received hydrocortisone of prednisone
during the administration of parathyroid
extract.  administration of prednisone was
associated with phosphate retention,
decreased urinary ca, decreased serum
ca, citrate and glycoprotein concentrations,
and increased serum phosphate.
excretion of parathyroid activity in the
urine of 1 patient was uninfluenced by the
administration of prednisone.  it is concluded
that the antagonistic effect of the
adrenal cortical steroids was expressed
at the biochemical sites of action of the
parathyroid extract in bone and kidney,
that the steroids reduce parathyroid secretion
but that their administration probably does not
result in degradation or inactivation of
the hormone.
.I 862
.W
tissue distribution of electrolytes, ca and mg in experimental
hyper- and hypoparathyroidism.
the effects of experimental hyper- and
hypoparathyroidism on plasma and tissue
distribution of electrolytes and tissue
exchangeability with ca and mg were studied
in dogs following acute renal pedicle
ligation.  in hyperparathyroidism, plasma concentrations
of mg and inorganic p as
well as ca were increased.  a greater accumulation
of ca occurred in some tissues
and a lesser accumulation in others than
in acute hypercalcemia of comparable
severity and the fractional rate of exchange
of tissue ca was 30% more rapid than
in control and acute hypercalcemic dogs.
bone exchange of ca was not significantly
increased.  cell mg concentrations were
not appreciably altered by hyperparathyroidism
except for a significant 9% decrease
in myocardium, but the fractional rate
of exchange of tissue mg was increased.
acidsoluble p concentrations were decreased
in 3 tissues and na and c1 concentrations
were decreased by 10 to 25% in 4 tissues.
in hypoparathyroidism, in addition to a
decreased plasma ca, the increment
in plasma inorganic p that usually occurs
after renal pedicle ligation was 75% less
than in control dogs.  cell ca concentrations
were decreased by 10-40% but the
fractional rate of exchange of tissue ca was
unaltered.  although cell mg concentrations
were unaltered a 40% increase occurred
in the exchangeability of skeletal muscle
mg.  tissue na and c1 concentrations were
decreased by 20% in 2 tissues.  it has been
previously reported that hypercalcemia
increases cell ca concentrations by raising
the extracellular ca concentration gradient.
evidence has also been presented that
hypercalcemia directly inhibits cell
influx of mg and na and cell efflux of k.
with altered parathyroid activity, 2 types
of effects are observed: those which are
dependent upon an abnormal extracellular
ca concentration and those which appear to
be due to intrinsic effects of parathormone
on cell cation transport.  the present
data are compatible with the hypotheses
that parathormone stimulates bidirectional
transport of cell ca and p, stimulates
cell influx of mg and opposes the effects of
hypercalcemia on cell transport of univalent ions.
.I 863
.W
the inhibition of respiration and phosphorylation in kidney
mitochondria by parathyroid hormone administered in vivo.
   parathyroid hormone administered
in vivo to rabbits
produced a metabolic alteration
in kidney cortex
mitochondria, evidenced by
diminished respiratory rate,
respiratory control, and p:o
ratio with a series of substrates
including pyruvate plus
fumarate, succinate,
ketoglutarate, malate, citrate,
and isocitrate.  the adenosine
triphosphate-inorganic
phosphate exchange reaction
rate was decreased and
adenosine triphosphatase
activity was increased compared
to control mitochondria.
these changes did not become
apparent until about 12 hr.
after injection, were undiminished
by 24 hr., and could
be elicited with as little as 200
usp units of hormone.
under identical conditions liver
mitochondria were unaffected.
diphospho- and triphosphopyridine nucleotides
in combination frequently elevated
the respiration in
parathyroid-treated mitochondria
close to or above control
levels with citrate and isocitrate
but not with the
remaining substrates and had
no effect on respiratory
control with any of the substrates.
the effects of the
hormone could not be duplicated
by elevating and maintaining
in otherwise normal rabbits
serum ca concentrations
at twice normal level
for 6 hr. it is concluded
that the effects produced by
parathyroid hormone on kidney
are multiple in nature and
related to the ca++
raising potency of the preparations.
.I 864
.W
sudden hypocalcemia in normal and hypoparathyroid subjects.
   serum calcium concentration was suddenly decreased
in 10 normal and 4 hypoparathyroid subjects
by the infusion of 50 mg/kg of disodium edta over a
30- to 45-minute interval.  the return rate to pre-infusion
values of the serum calcium concentration was the
same in both groups.  serum phosphate showed a marked,
transient decrease 30 min after the infusion in normal
individuals, but not in those with hypoparathyroidism.
the hypophosphatemia was followed by a marked
increase in phosphate clearance in the normal group and
a decrease in the hypoparathyroid group.  urine phosphate:
urine creatinine x 10 (up:uc x 10) and urine
phosphate: urine osmolality x 10 (up:uo x 10) ratios
also reflected an increased phosphate excretion in the
2 groups.  a simple clinical measure of parathyroid
function is suggested by determining the up:uo x 10
or the up:uc x 10, or both, ratios before and 3 to 6
hr after intravenous infusion of disodium edta.
.I 865
.W
parathyroid function in chronic renal failure.  a statistical survey
of the plasma biochemistry in azotaemic renal osteodystrophy.
   a collection has been made of 134 personal and
published cases of azotemic osteodystrophy in which
adequate information was available concerning the
pathological state of the bones.  measurements were
available of the plasma calcium, plasma phosphate, and
blood-urea-nitrogen in all cases, and of plasma bicarbonate
and plasma proteins in a representative sample.
the plasma levels of calcium and phosphate in the whole
series of 134 cases were not related reciprocally but
were correlated directly.  these data were further analyzed
by allocating each case to either of 2 sub-groups,
according to the type of pathological lesions present in
the bones.  in one group there was evidence of defective
mineralization of skeletal tissues, in the form of either
rickets or osteomalacia, and the plasma-calcium was
found to be statistically sub-normal.  in the other group
there was no primary defect of mineralization but the
lesions of generalized osteitis fibrosa were present and
the plasma calcium was statistically normal.  there was
no significant correlation between the plasma levels of
calcium and phosphate in either sub-group; and the plasma
phosphate was significantly higher in the group with
the higher plasma calcium levels.  the data indicate that
in patients with renal osteodystrophy, contrary to general
belief, the plasma calcium varies independently of the
plasma phosphate.  since these results imply differences
in parathyroid function among patients with azotemic
osteodystrophy, a survey has also been made of
the recorded parathyroid weights in chronic renal failure.
generalized osteitis fibrosa and the accompanying normal
levels of plasma calcium are associated with greater
parathyroid hypertrophy than is found in most cases
of chronic renal failure or cases with defective mineralization.
the various data are interpreted in relation
to the known metabolic disturbances and natural history
of azotemic osteodystrophy.  by analogy with states of
simple vitamin d deficiency, it is suggested that hypocalcemia
and relative unresponsiveness to the calcemic
action of parathyroid hormone are related to an acquired
resistance to vitamin d.  the group of cases with statistically
normal plasma-calcium prove that the parathyroid
glands can function effectively in some patients
with chronic renal failure, irrespective of the level of
the plasma phosphate.  the size of the glands and the
effects of sub-total parathyroidectomy in patients of this
group suggest that the normal plasma calcium results
from an increased production of parathyroid hormone.
the more advanced renal failure in the normocalcemic,
as compared with the hypocalcemic, cases could mean
that the development of an effective degree of secondary
hyperparathyroidism is a function of the duration of the
renal disease.  it seems likely that when the parathyroid
response is sufficient to overcome the effects of the vitamin
d resistance it also entails the development of generalized
osteitis fibrosa, healing of the defect of mineralization
and increased liability to metastatic calcification.
.I 866
.W
albright's hereditary osteodystrophy.  report of a family with studies
of bone remodeling.
   two members of a single family, each representing
different forms of albright's hereditary osteodystrophy,
have been presented.  the kindred pattern is
similar to those of other reported families and is consistent
with a sex-linked or autosomal dominant mode of
inheritance.  the importance of a course of intramuscular
parathyroid extract for proof of parathyroid hormone
resistance is emphasized.  biopsy specimens of rib,
labeled in vivo with tetracycline, were studied microscopically.
these new observations indicated cellular
defects in bone remodeling shared by the propositus and
case 2, which may explain the low rates of bone turnover
found in each.  immunologic studies established the
presence of a substance antigenically similar to parathyroid
hormone in the parathyroid tissue of the propositus.
the pathogenesis of albright's hereditary osteodystrophy
and atypical forms of parathyroid hormone
resistant hypocalcemia is discussed.
.I 867
.W
acute hyperparathyroidism: a surgical emergency.
   acute hypercalcemic crisis of hyperparathyroidism
is a surgical emergency.  diagnosis is often difficult
because of the polymorphous character of the
symptoms.  the variable clinical features of the syndrome
are described emphasizing the frequent occurrence of
gastrointestinal symptoms, especially duodenal ulcer of
recurring pancreatitis in the antecedent history as well
as the better known occurrence of renal and skeletal
manifestations, which precede the crisis in all but a few
cases.  despite the variability of the clinical manifestations,
the total syndrome forms a distinctive pattern
which should be recognizable once it is known.  previously
reported cases have been reviewed and an additional
case reported.  the differential diagnosis, aids
in identification of the tumor and prospects for more
effective control of the hypercalcemia are discussed.
at the present time, early surgical removal of the tumor
is the only effective treatment.
.I 868
.W
actinomycin d inhibition of intestinal transport of calcium and
of vitamin d action.
   actinomycin d injection inhibits the actions of vit d
in increasing concentrative transport of ca across the
intestinal wall in vitro and in raising serum ca concentrations
of fasted vit d-deficient rats.  actinomycin d blocks
the transport of ca across the mucosal surface of vit d
deficient as well as vit d-treated rats so that its action is
on the ca transport system, rather than on the stimulatory
effect of vit d.  this inhibitory effect of actinomycin d on
ca transport is present within 3 hr of its s. c. injection
and is less marked at 18 hr which suggests a direct interaction
with the ca transport system.  under the same conditions
actinomycin d does not influence the transport of
1-tyrosine across the intestinal wall in vitro.
.I 869
.W
studies on hydroxyproline excretion and corticosteroid-induced
dwarfism: treatment with human growth hormone.
   two children who had been receiving large doses
of corticosteroids for years and were growing at a retarded
rate were treated with human growth hormone.
growth rate increased 2.5 to 3-fold and urinary hydroxyproline
excretion which was initially low increased
to the normal level.  when treatment was stopped, growth
rate and hydroxyproline excretion decreased promptly.
.I 870
.W
a comparison of human placental lactogen (hpl) and human growth hormone
(hgh) in hypopituitary patients.
   the conclusions based on the studies reported are
that placental lactogen (hpl) at a dose level of 200 mg./
day did not induce a positive nitrogen balance in two hypopituitary
subjects.  in addition, lactogen does not augment
the nitrogen retaining effect of growth hormone
when given in a dose of 200 mg./day.
.I 871
.W
radiation necrosis of the brain in acromegaly.
radiation therapy of pituitary tumors can
cause necrosis of the brain (4 cases are reported),
particulary if a carefully considered schedule of
dosimetry is exceeded.  the error can be due to
repeated courses of treatment or too rapid administration.
the cerebral lesions develop after a
latent period of months and are progressive and
often fatal.  appropriate pituitary surgery is preferable
to multiple treatment with radiation.
.I 872
.W
   experiences with hgh treatment of twelve hypopituitary
dwarfs for periods varying from 6 to 41 months
are reported.  all the patients were considered to have
hypopituitarism from birth, four of them of the hereditary
type, four possibly due to traumatic birth or neonatal asphyxia,
and four from an unknown cause.  in six
patients detailed information concerning growth during
the first year of life could be obtained.  all of these patients
had a degree of growth retardation before one
year of age.  we consider this to be the rule rather than
the exception in pituitary dwarfism.  the most important
diagnostic evidence was a marked degree of growth retardation
accompanied by a pronounced delay in skeletal
maturation, and, in most cases, signs of secondary
hypothyroidism, increased insulin sensitivity, and a
poor response to metopyrone administration.  none of
the patients who had passed the normal age of puberty
had maturated sexually.  all twelve patients responded
well to hgh therapy.  during the first year of treatment
the average height increment was 10 cm. ('catch-up' growth).
with continued treatment a normal rate of
growth, about 6 cm./year, was obtained.  there was no
disproportionate acceleration of skeletal maturation in
any of the patients.  none of them has so far become resistant
to hgh administration.  the oldest patient has
reached normal height.  whether this will be possible
not only in the moderately severe, but also in the most
severe cases of pituitary dwarfism, can not yet be stated.
the possibility of using human gonadotrophic hormones
in an attempt to produce sexual maturation in
these patients is discussed briefly.
.I 873
.W
treatment of retarded growth with human growth hormone.
results of treatment with human growth hormone
in the following 3 cases are discussed:
female hypopituitary dwarf of 17 yr.,
who grew 10 cm. in 20 mth.; a boy
of 14 yr. with constitutional retarded growth,
in whom the growth rate increased;
and in a case of primordial dwarfism in a girl
of 10 yr. in whom the growth curve
was unaffected by the treatment.
.I 874
.W
genetic pituitary dwarfism with high serum concentration of growth
hormone new inborn error of metabolism?.
   a description is given of three siblings with hypoglycemia
and other clinical and laboratory signs of growth
hormone deficiency but with abnormally high concentrations
of immunoreactive serum growth hormone.  since
exogenous growth hormone was active in these patients,
the endogenous secretion of an abnormal growth hormone
molecule is postulated.
.I 875
.W
growth-hormone deficiency in man:
an isolated, recessively inherited defect.
   a deficiency of human growth hormone not associated
with other pituitary deficiencies was observed in
midgets with sexual ateliosis, a form of dwarfism inherited
as an autosomal recessive trait.  body proportions,
sexual development, birth weight, and postpartum lactation
are normal in this syndrome.
.I 876
.W
treatment of short stature in children and adolescents
with human pituitary growth hormone (raben).  experience
with thirty-five cases.
human pituitary growth hormone (raben) was
evaluated by longitudinal study of
growth as a therapeutic agent in the treatment
of short stature.  clinically significant
increases in growth rate were achieved in 11
of 13 hypopituitary patients.  no significant
improvement in linear growth rate was
noted with a dose of 2 mg 3 times
weekly in children whose short stature was due
to other conditions.  no adverse reactions
were noted; thyroidal, adrenal or gonadal
activation was not observed.  growth
was stimulated, probably without an undue increase
in bone age, though this point
demands continued scrutiny.  owing to the limited
supply of this material it is recommended
that it be used only in cases of documented
growth failure, and a protocol
for evaluation of therapeutic response is discussed.
though not a panacea for treatment
of short stature, human growth hormone
fulfils a unique and invaluable role
in replacement therapy for the hypopituitary dwarf.
.I 877
.W
the development of bilateral adenomatous adrenal hyperplasia
in a case of cushing's syndrome of eighteen years' duration.
a case of cushing's syndrome of 18 years'
duration is presented.  the disease
began when the patient was 8 years old and
was partially controlled by pituitary
radiation when she was 13.  however, clinical
evidence indicate low grade but continuous
adrenocortical activity for the next 13
years.  the probable suppression
of gh secretion by the increased steroid levels
during her growth period provides
a reasonable explanation for the dwarfism of
the patient.  the administration of 8 mg
of dexamethasone per day failed to decrease
urinary steroid excretion.  bilateral
nodular hyperplasia was found at surgery.
it is suggested from the evidence presented
that this patient's disease began first
as a primary pituitary process but
during the long duration of the acth secretion
it evolved into one of autonomously
functioning bilateral nodular hyperplasia.
.I 878
.W
hypopituitarism: a study of growth
hormone and other endocrine functions.
   pituitary function was evaluated in 25 adults with
evidence of hypopituitarism or enlargement of the sella
turcica.  growth hormone secretory function was measured
by radioimmunoassay of plasma samples taken
before and after insulin-induced hypoglycemia in a standardized
test of growth hormone reserve.  all patients
exhibited significant defects in growth hormone secretion,
as indicated by the failure of this hormone to rise
to normal levels in response to hypoglycemia.  the order
of frequency of hormonal loss was: growth hormone,
gonadotropin, adrenocorticotropic hormone, thyroid
stimulating hormone.  no pattern of deficiency was characteristic
for any particular etiology of hypopituitarism.
one patient with asymptomatic enlargement of the sella
turcica (accidentally discovered) had an isolated loss
of growth hormone secretory capacity.  two patients in
the series demonstrated intrinsic deficiency of thyroid
as well as pituitary secretion, and both had elevated
liters of antithyroid antibodies.  this study represents
the first direct evaluation, by radioimmunoassay of
growth hormone function in a series of hypopituitary
adults.  it demonstrates a remarkably high prevalence
of growth hormone loss, and suggests that the growth
hormone response to hypoglycemia may be one of the
most sensitive tests for the diagnosis of hypopituitarism.
.I 879
.W
hypoglycemia and dwarfism associated with the isolated
deficiency of growth hormone.
the authors have studied a 7-year-old dwarfed
boy with a history of severe, recurrent
hypoglycemic episodes since age 1 and
retarded bone age.  hepatic, adrenal,
and thyroid function were normal.  he demonstrated
fasting hypoglycemia with blood
sugars of 30-40 mg./100 ml.  he was not sensitive
to l-leucine but showed insulin
sensitivity and hypoglycemic unresponsiveness.
glycogenolysis in response to both
adrenaline and glucagon was appropriate.  fasting
plasma gh levels were less than
1 m g./ml. (normal 1-3), and no rise was seen
after insulin-induced hypoglycemia.
similarly, these low gh levels did not rise 3-6
hr.  after a glucose tolerance test.
treatment with hgh reversed the alterations
in carbohydrate metabolism.  it is
concluded that the patient suffered from an isolated
gh deficiency which resulted in
dwarfism and alterations in carbohydrate metabolism.
.I 880
.W
the effect of growth hormone in hypothalamo-pituitary
dwarfism. i. the metabolic effects of human growth hormone.
human growth hormone, isolated by raben's
method, was given in 2 to 5 mg. daily
doses over periods from 1 to 12 days to 7 patients
with pituitary-hypothalamic dwarfism.
the metabolic effects were as follows:
nitrogen retention with a variable
reduction in blood urea.  the plasma amino-acid
concentration did not alter after
i.m. injection of the hormone during fasting.
an accompanying retention of intracellular
components, in such proportions required
for protoplasm formation.
isotonic expansion of the extracellular compartment,
without change in the plasma
electrolyte concentrations.  retention of phosphorus,
sometimes a rise in plasma
phosphate; increased intestinal calcium absorption,
hypercalciuria, no alteration
in plasma calcium; an increase in plasma citrate
and citrate urinary excretion;
the calcium and phosphate retention was reversed
on stopping treatment.  mobilisation
of fat stores with lipid catabolism: this
was accompanied by a well marked
increase in nefa concentration for some hours
after hormone injection in the
fasting state, after a period of hypoglycaemia
and low nefa levels.  a complex,
biphasic action on glucose metabolism.  fasting
blood sugar levels are altered,
as are the glycaemia in various tests such as
fasting, insulin injections, tolbutamide
administration, intestinal hyperglycaemia.
acceleration of intermediate
metabolism with increased blood citrate
concentrations and 24 hours urinary
excretion of  -ketoglutaric acid.  in one test
during fasting the blood citrate increased
4 hours after hormone injection.  after
an oral load of sugar the blood citrate
and  -ketoglutaric acid concentrations
did not alter.  a progressive gain in
weight has been found during treatment, partly
reversible on stopping treatment,
correlating with the intracellular nitrogen retention
and expansion of the extracellular
space, despite mobilisation of fat reserves.
.I 881
.W
serum chorionic 'growth hormone-prolactin' and serum pituitary
growth hormone in mother and fetus at term.
chorionic 'growth hormone-prolactin' (cgp) and
pituitary hgh were measured in
maternal and fetal blood obtained simultaneously
at term from 29 pregnant women
and their fetuses utilizing sensitive radioimmunoassay
procedures.  the mean concentration
of serum cgp in maternal venous blood
was 5.6  g/ml (sem0.39) whereas
in umbilical venous serum the mean concentration
was 0.019  g/ml (sem 0.003),
a 300-fold difference.  contrariwise, the mean
concentration of serum hgh in maternal
serum was 5.9 m g/ml (sem 0.52) and
in umbilical venous serum the level
was 33.5 m g/ml (sem 4.6).  the ratio of serum
cgp/hgh in maternal venous serum
was 1076 in contrast to 0.57 in umbilical venous
serum.  the findings strongly suggest
that cgp is secreted by the syncytiotrophoblast
almost exclusively in a unidirectional
manner into the maternal circulation.
further, it is unlikely that an appreciable
exchange of hgh occurs between the
maternal and fetal circulations.  the
data support the view that the growth hormone-like
metabolic changes observed in
pregnancy are attributable to the effects of cgp
and are consistent with the hypothesis
that cgp is an important metabolic hormone
of pregnancy exerting its actions
on the mother and possibly the placenta, but only
indirectly on the fetus.
.I 882
.W
effect of abdominal operation on glucose tolerance and serum levels of
insulin, growth hormone, and hydrocortisone.
   abdominal operations of moderate severity are
followed by high fasting blood-glucose levels and a reduced
tolerance to intravenous glucose which persists
for at least 72 hours after operation.  fasting plasma-insulin
levels are raised after surgery.  intravenous glucose
produces much higher levels of serum-insulin and
growth hormone in the immediate postoperative period.
corticotrophin infusion increases the plasma-hydrocortisone
levels and reduces glucose assimilation to a
greater extent than operation, but has no effect on serum-insulin
or growth-hormone levels.
.I 883
.W
plasma growth hormone concentration in the rat determined by
radioimmunoassay: influence of sex, pregnancy, lactation, anesthesia,
hypophysectomy and extrasellar pituitary transplants.
   the assay used is described in detail.  several experimental
conditions were studied, both to validate the
method and to determine factors which regulate gh secretion
in this species.  in fasting sprague-dawley rats
weighing 150-200 g, mean plasma gh concentration in
females was 94.2 17.3, and in males, 54.9 12.0 m g/ml.
gh levels in lactating rats were determined to be in
the normal range for females, thereby providing evidence
that this assay does not detect prolactin.  gh levels were
not elevated in pregnant rats.  hypophysectomy led to a
fall below detectable levels of gh.  intraocular pituitary
transplants failed to raise gh levels in hypophysectomized
hosts.  gh levels in male, but not in female, rats
are depressed by brief periods of ether anesthesia.  these
findings and the results of pituitary transplantation experiments
are further evidence that the nervous system
is involved in the regulation of gh secretion.
.I 884
.W
clinical features of the alalies (russian).
the term 'alalies' is applied to the various
states of absence or insufficient development
of speech in children, resulting
from defective development or affections
of the speech centers before the development
of speech.  from the clinical
study it is possible to distinguish between several
forms: motor, sensory, and
semantic alaly with signs of amnesia.  the
causes are multiple: trauma, perinatal
cerebral hemorrhage, inflammatory processes,
metabolic disorders before the
development of speech, and alimentary and
trophic disorders.  the alalies show
varying degrees of severity.  in most children
suffering from alaly, neurological
signs can be demonstrated on the right side,
an indication of the organic nature of
the condition.  the presence of local symptoms
in the various forms of alaly is
often associated with signs indicating involvement
of adjacent regions of the cerebral
hemispheres in the pathological process
which would explain why the alalies
are often complex.  the character of the alalies
depends on functional disorders
resulting from the lesion in the frontal, anterior,
motor, temporal or parietal
region of the dominant cerebral hemisphere.
patients with alaly often show neurotic
reactions, resulting from the disorders
of the processes of inhibition and excitation
of the cerebral cortex and the subcortical
formations.  early treatment of
the alalies with drugs combined with logopedic
and pedagogic measures gives good results.
.I 885
.W
an unusual form of acquired aphasia in children.
an unusual form of acquired aphasia-both
receptive and executive is described
as occurring in 10 children, 6 girls and 4 boys.
the onset occurred between 5 and
6 yr. of age with one or more epileptiform
attacks-which were not repeated-but
were followed by some degree of hearing
loss (later improving), failure to
comprehend spoken language and finally loss
or impairment of executive speech.
examination of csf and peg yielded normal
results.  eeg's were abnormal mainly
in the temporal leads.  the disorder appeared
self-limiting and throughout non-verbal
intelligence was not imparied.
.I 886
.W
childhood echolalia in delayed, psychotic and neuropathologic
speech patterns.
some linguistic analytical procedures and
preliminary findings from controlled tape-recorded
samples of a group of echolalic
children are reported together with the
clinical and experimental rationale for the
investigation.  the subjects are echolalic
3-yr. olds and a group of young clinical referrals
representing a variety of pathological
conditions.  variables selected for
study include the proportion of echo to
non-echo and silence, the quality and appropriateness
of the non-echoed speech, the
amount of the stimulus echoed, the nature
of the triggering stimulus, the deviation of
echo pattern from stimulus pattern, pitch-loudness-time
variations, and the child's
chronological and mental ages.  early quantitative
results yielded very similar echo:
non-echo:silence percentages with echolalia
representing a mean of about 40% of the
conversation of each experimental group.
.I 887
.W
speech as a landmark in development.
it is attempted to demonstrate how observations
of children's speech and language
development may serve as valuable indicators of
their general physical, intellectual,
and emotional progress.  speech lag or breakdown
may corroborate other suspect
areas of development or may point the way to them.
speech and language disorders
seldom originate in the mouth.  ideas must precede
speech, and speech is a direct
correlate of intelligence.
.I 888
.W
the applicability of individualized programed instruction
in the education of deaf children.
verbal behavior is learned behavior and as
such is guided by the same principles
as any other learned behavior.  the parents'
role is mainly to help the young deaf
child conceive of language as a socializing
process and to help shape language behavior
toward the use of verbal symbols.
the teacher's role in the deaf child's
progress as a language user includes (1) helping
the child discover how the structure
of his language operates and (2) guiding
him in the process of acquiring clear
concepts.  the learning of a language is a highly
individualized process and requires
thousands of hours of practice.  efficiency
in language teaching to the deaf
has not been generally achieved by traditional
methods.  the teacher of the deaf
needs extra help in order to provide the individualistic
kind of teaching to insure
verbal over-learning by the child.  self-tutoring
programed materials offer this
help.  programs are so constructed that a child
proceeds through the program step
by step with a probability of maximum success
because of constant feedback as to
correctness of his responses.  for younger
children the use of a machine seems
desirable while for older children the program
may appear in book form, on film
strip, and any other visual medium.  well constructed
programs should be correlated
with classroom instruction.
.I 889
.W
the impact of individual differences on language learning.
a matrix of extrinsic and intrinsic factors affecting
language learning in the prelingually
deaf child is considered.  particular
emphasis is placed on the effects
of parental attitudes on both the emotional
stability of the home and on the provision
or restriction of experience.
.I 890
.W
the oral language performance of premature children and controls.
fifty-one premature children born in 1955
and 1956 were compared with 55 normally
born subjects with birth weights over
2,500 grams.  they were tested on
tapped patterns, auditory memory span,
auditory discrimination, word recognition,
language comprehension, articulation,
resistance to articulation disintegration,
word finding, story telling, number of words
used, mean length of 5 longest sentences,
sentence elaboration, grammatical
errors, definitions and categories.
the mean age of both groups was 5.8 and the
premature children's performance
was inferior to that of children born at term.
.I 891
.W
speech and reading problems in childhood.
the following communicative disorders
have been discussed: functional articulation
defects, delayed speech development,
stuttering, hearing loss, cleft palate,
neurological disorders, and reading disorders.
these disorders rarely have a
single cause.  they are the result of an
intermingling of many factors, some physiological
and some psychological, some
residing within the child and some in the
parents and environment in general.  delayed
or defective speech is a cause for
great concern to most parents and teachers.
the public health worker who listens
with an attentive and sympathetic ear may
allay some of this anxiety and thus help
foster healthy emotional development in
the child.  the existence of a more serious
condition underlying the presenting communication
problem, even if sensed by the
parents, is frequently denied.  the public
health worker can assist the parents in
the painful process of facing up to their
fears.  a child with a communication problem
is still a child and the public health worker
by simply reflecting this to the parents
and advising them on normal child-raising
practices can, again, be of help to the
child.  children with speech deviations are
exposed to an overabundance of well-intentioned
speech correction at home.
most of it is ineffective; some of it, unfortunately
is harmful.  while the worker
may not be in a position to offer specific
advice on a particular child, the manner
in which the parents and teacher are handling
the child's communication problem
can be explored and damaging practices
possibly eliminated.  the fact that there
may be a diagnostic and treatment center
to which the child can be referred does
not vitiate the public health worker's role.
the public health physician and public health
nurse have a valuable contribution
to make in helping the parents, school,
and child accept the chronic nature of the disorder.
.I 892
.W
disorders of communication in young children.
the normal development of spoken language is
outlined.  the causation, differential
diagnosis, individual assessment and management
of developmental disorders of
communication in young children are briefly discussed.
.I 893
.W
acquired aphasia in children.
this report concerns the cases of 21 boys
and 11 girls studied over a period of several
years while rehabilitation was carried
out.  the general conclusions fall under
3 headings: (1) symptomatology as compared
with that of aphasia in the adult; (2) the
course of the disorder; (3) prospects of the
level of intellectual performance in the
future of the children.  in 13 cases, cerebral
damage had resulted from traumatic
contusion; in 10 cases from an intracranial
nontraumatic hematoma (vascular malformation,
aneurysm or angioma); in 2 cases
the aphasia followed operation for a
cerebral astrocytoma; in 2 further cases
occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery
had occurred; and in the remaining 5 cases
no precise diagnosis was made.
.I 894
.W
the causes of delayed development of speech.
speech develops parallelly and simultaneously
with psychophysical development of
the child, arising from internal need and
under the influence of external factors.  not
all children are given the chance to develop
in favorable conditions and to pass through
all the phases of development without some
injury.  the various possibilities when a
child may be injured and hampered in the
development of speech are discussed.  the
testing of the sense of hearing in children
with a cleft palate is also included-out of
181 cases of cleft palate, in 72 cases there
was decrease of the sense of hearing exceeding
30 db.  this additional injury of
the child with a cleft palate, if remaining unnoticed,
may make the treatment of speech
abnormality difficult.  the necessity of
diagnostic team investigation and the treatment
of children with speech disturbances
are emphasized.
.I 895
.W
concept learning in culturally disadvantaged children as
a function of verbal pretraining.
while research indicates that verbal pretraining
has a positive influence on the discrimination
learning performance of subjects
of normal intelligence, a comparable
influence has not been shown for other types
of conceptual tasks for retarded subjects.
the purpose of this experiment was
to investigate the effects of stimulus
pretraining on concept learning by subjects
who had a 'high risk' of being classified
as mentally retarded at some future time.
a group of 27 'higher risk' and 27 'lower
risk' subjects was randomly divided into
3 pretraining groups: verbal label, attention,
and control.  subsequent to pretraining on
the stimuli used for transfer task 1, subjects
in each group were presented with a
concept learning task (transfer task 1).
after reaching the criterion of learning on
transfer task 1, subjects were presented
with a second, new, concept learning task.
analysis of the data revealed that there
were no significant performance differences
between risk groups and that pretraining
had a significantly positive effect on performance.
.I 896
.W
concept development and language instruction.
the author describes factors related to,
and the errors that may occur in concept
development in children.  the contributions
of language for the deaf child's conceptual
development are stressed.  included
are a review of what concepts are, psychologically,
and an example of how concepts
may be presented, educationally, in the classroom.
.I 897
.W
formal speech characteristics as a diagnostic aid in childhood
psychosis.
the frequency of use of various grammatical
units in the spontaneous conversational
speech of adults and children has been
noted by many authors to be fairly stable.
the hypothesis that idiosyncratic distributions
might be found in certain specific
disorders of ego functioning was tested
in relationship to childhood psychosis.  some
support was found for this, as well as
for some contemporary psychological and
psychoanalytical interpretations of phenomena
seen in childhood psychosis.
.I 898
.W
cerebral dominance and speech acquistion in deaf children.
in examining the prediction that left cerebral
dominance, as indexed by hand and
sighting preference, should be a positive accompaniment
of speech learning in individuals
whose cerebral speech areas are likely
to be in the left hemisphere, it was
found that over a 10-12 year period of formal
education right-handed-right-sighting
deaf students consistently earned higher speech
grades than their right-handed-left-sighting
and right-handed-mixed-sighting counterparts
matched on the basis of
hearing loss.  this finding supports the hypothesis
that the cerebral mechanisms
relevant to speech acquisition are simplified,
facilitated, and/or less prone to
interference when control of speech, hand, and
eye is localized primarily in 1
hemisphere of the brain.
.I 899
.W
a color test for the measurement of antibody to the non-acid-forming
human mycoplasma species.
   a metabolic inhibition test
for the measurement of
growth inhibiting antibodies to
the non-acid producing
human mycoplasma species is
described.  the test is
based upon the ability of these
organisms to metabolize
arginine with a resultant alkaline
shift in the ph of the
medium.  the alkaline shift is
inhibited by specific antiserum.
labile accessory factor(s)
present in unheated
guinea pig serum potentiates
the inhibitory effect of antiserum.
the test is sensitive
and specific for the measurement
of antibody to mycoplasmas
in rabbit immune
and human convalescent serum.
.I 900
.W
serologic epidemiologic studies with m. pneumoniae. i. demonstration
of an hemagglutinin and its inhibition by antibody.
   a new direct, specific
hemagglutination reaction
with live m. pneumoniae is described.
this requires the presence of a natural antibody
for the red cell in the
horse serum employed in the
diluent.  although vervet
monkey erythrocytes generally
have been employed,
human and rabbit cells may be
used.  hemagglutination
can be inhibited by specific antibody
but heat inactivation
of the sera is required,
whether they be human or
animal in origin.  antibodies
persist for many years and
are passively transferred to
the fetus.  a micro variation
has been devised.  the test
is useful for diagnostic
and epidemiologic studies and,
in reverse, can be utilized
for the rapid serologic
identification of new isolates.
the method is limited,
at present, to m. pneumoniae.